The search for precious stones keeps drawing illegal miners in South Africa back to the soil. That longing has eventually led them to the paths of highly flammable gas and fuel lines in Johannesburg, posing a threat to the state. With the fear that the desperation of these illegal miners is pushing the state towards unprecedented disaster, experts have called on the government to save the city by stopping illegal mining. Head of Johannesburg’s Infrastructure Protection Unit, Conel Mackay, stated that “the city faces a disaster beyond imagination.” Should one of the gas and fuel lines be damaged, everything within a 300 metres radius will be incinerated, experts warn. Asides the possibility of going up in flames, the chances of going under are very high as key parts of the city are threatening to collapse. Illegal miners have dug and blasted their way through a 140km labyrinth of underground tunnels beneath Johannesburg, including the M1 double-decker highway and the M2 sections of Soweto and the largest stadium in Africa (FNB Stadium). This is not the first time the government has been alerted. In 2017, Transnet SOC rail/pipeline company and Sasol energy company alerted the government about potential threats illegal miners were posing to their fuel and gas pipelines. Both companies noted that the explosives used by these illegal miners were dangerously close to their pipelines and had the ability to run past critical infrastructure. Even Johannesburg’s mayor, Herman Mashaba has been calling for urgent interventions to deal with illegal mining for about a year. The story of South Africa’s history and development is not complete without its mining industry. In the 1970s and 1980s, the mining industry boomed, contributing 21 percent to the country’s Gross Domestic Product (GDP); by 2016, the industry contributed only 8 percent. Unfortunately, the mine workers bore the brunt of this decline as jobs were cut to accommodate the numbers. In most cases, mining is all these workers have known all their lives and relieving them of their jobs is a hard pill for them to swallow, leading them to the paths of illegal mining. On the other hand, there are the artisan miners or small-scale miner (ASM) who are unofficially employed by mining companies but work independently, mining various minerals. In both cases, the government and the mines consider them a threat on the grounds of safety and have labelled them illegal miners. In response to the calls against illegal miners, South Africa’s mineral resources department has embarked on an urgent ground stability study in Johannesburg. The Department revealed that the study will commence through the Council for Geoscience (CGS) and is aimed at assessing whether there is any long-term damage to critical infrastructure installation.

“While there is no immediate threat to critical infrastructure as has been claimed, the government wants to confirm this assertion scientifically, and proactively deal with this matter not only in Johannesburg but in other areas where illegal mining occurs,” the Department stated.