Kenya’s Director of Public Prosecutions (DPP), Noordin M. Haji has directed the country’s Ethics and Anti-Corruption Commission (EACC) to prosecute three Chinese workers for offering bribe to investigators who are working to uncover a suspected multi-million-shilling ticketing fraud at the Mombasa-Nairobi train service. The three Chinese men who work with China Roads and Bridge Corporation (CRBC) at the Standard Gauge Railways (SGR) Mombasa Terminus were arrested alongside four Kenyan colleagues. CRBC operates Kenya’s passenger train service dubbed Madaraka Express, which has carried more than 1.3 million passengers. “The three, Mr. Li Gen the in-charge of Transport, Mr. Li Xiaowu-security manager and Mr. Sun Xin-staff, were offering Directorate of Criminal Investigations (DCI) investigators bribe of Ksh500,000/= as an inducement to influence an ongoing criminal investigation at the SGR Miritini terminus,” Kenya’s National Prosecution Authority said on its official twitter handle. “The three Chinese Nationals will be charged with the offence of giving a bribe contrary to section 5 (1) as read with section 18(1), (2) of the Bribery Act No. 47 of 2016.” 2/3 The three, Mr. Li Gen the in-charge of Transport, Mr. Li Xiaowu-security manager and Mr. Sun Xin-staff, were offering @DCI_Kenya investigators bribe of Kshs 500,000/= as an inducement to influence an ongoing criminal investigation at the SGR Miritini terminus. cc @EACCKenya pic.twitter.com/xZ3DLr0phf — ODPP_KE (@ODPP_KE) November 25, 2018  Reports say that the alleged ticketing fraud involves insiders taking a significant part of revenue from each trip. The arrest is the latest in a string of corruption cases related to the SGR. In August, Atanas Kariuki Maina, managing director of the Kenya Railways Corporation and 17 others and companies were charged for fraud, which court documents said led to loss of public funds amounting to 221.4 million shillings ($2.2 million). President Uhuru Kenyatta launched the Madaraka Express on May 31, 2017, to run through the 480km SGR connecting the capital Nairobi to the port city of Mombasa. The project implemented by CRBC is seen as an early result of the Belt and Road Initiative (BRI). The BRI, which China proposed in 2013, aims to build trade and infrastructure networks connecting Asia with Europe and Africa along the ancient Silk Road routes.