Honoris United Universities, the first private pan-African higher education network, has acquired École d’Architecture de Casablanca (EAC) in Morocco as it continues to build a network of universities providing specialized offerings to improve education in Africa. Ealier in the year, Honoris also partnered with EMSI, the largest private higher education institution in Morocco and Universite Mundiapolis, a multi-disciplinary university in Morocco known for its employability mission. EAC, which will formally become part of Honoris Morocco, is highly distinguished and the first private school of architecture to be recognized by the State of Morocco in Casablanca.  The learning experience at EAC provides graduates the theoretical and practical applications of architecture and of landscaping, leading to intellectual breadth and practical skills required for the professions. Commenting, CEO of Honoris United Universities, Luis Lopez, said, “Architecture is important globally and for Africa, as the continent aims to strengthen its infrastructure and to build smart cities that will improve the human habitat in sustainable and affordable ways.  EAC will help Honoris to build a very natural bridge for students to gain the skills needed for the jobs of tomorrow.  It is an extremely exciting project for our pan-African work.” Mr. Benabeljalil and Mr. Lahbabi, Founders and Directors of EAC hope they can further advance the ambitions of the school’s education methodologies now that they have been able to support the school with an international university network. “This important development for the school, will create new opportunities,” they stated. Actis, a leading investor in growth markets has over the last two years invested in higher education in Africa through Honoris United Universities which it launched last year. The company said it has “developed extensive domain knowledge in the education sector by backing the trend for emerging market consumers to secure their own and their children’s future quality of life by investing in their education”. Actis has invested in several top institutions of higher learning in Africa since launching Honoris United Universities. The network gathers a community of 32,000 students on 48 campuses, learning centers and via on-line, in 9 countries and 30 cities across Africa. Students have an opportunity to experience exclusive partnerships and exchange programs in more than 60 universities across Europe and the United States. Over 100 degrees are offered in Health Science, Engineering, IT, Business, Law, Architecture, Arts and Design, Media, Education and Political Science.