There has been an increasing interest in Foreign Direct Investment (FDI) because of the role it plays as an external source of capital for developing countries. For this, African economies are always looking for how money can be injected into their economies especially through foreign investment at the peril of local investors. This is mainly the case in Nigeria who is seeking more Foreign investors to boost their inflows, grow the economy and help in the country’s ranking on the investment destination index. Nigeria’s President Muhammadu Buhari early this month noted that, the completed $600 million Lafarge Plant in Calabar, the proposed $1.3 billion public-private partnership with General Electric on Rail Track Development and the proposed ENI/Agip rehabilitation of Port Harcourt Refinery were clear indications that foreign private companies were coming back to Nigeria and making massive investments which are resulting in significant growth in the non-oil sector. Foreign Direct Investment (FDI) has proven to be resilient, especially during a financial crisis. However, the resilience of these investments may lead a developing country like Nigeria to regard it as the private capital inflow of choice. Although there is substantial evidence that such investments benefit the host country, this has also contributed to many countries largely ignoring domestic investments. In an interview with The Nerve Africa, Andrew Alli, the former President and CEO of the Africa Finance Corporation, a multilateral financial institution focused on improving Africa’s critical infrastructure says “Nigeria always looks for how money can be injected into the economy, especially through foreign investments but the country ignores local investors. Local investors are driven by the same things that foreign investors are driven by,” “We should focus on the wider context; what are they investing in, should people invest for ten years, what are the predictions in ten years’ time? Are we going to have the same policies in ten years’ time? Would we have similar taxes? What would the exchange rate be by then? If we cannot predict with some level of certainty how do you expect people to invest?” Undoubtedly, economists favour foreign investments because it allows for the free flow of capital across national borders which in turn, allows capital to seek out the highest rate of return. FDI allows for the transfer of technology – recipients and employees of foreign companies investing in host countries often gain employee training which contributes to the human capital development. Also, profits generated by Foreign Direct Investments contribute to corporate tax revenues, but should that be enough to channel the bulk of the attention on foreign investments? President of the World Bank Group, Jim Yong Kim once said that governments have the enormous task of fostering an environment where entrepreneurs and small and medium enterprises can thrive, without which there is no chance to end extreme poverty and boost shared prosperity around the world. Andrew Alli also noted that “there is a need for the Nigerian economy to look towards becoming a more progressive economy and this the country can do by demonstrating its zeal to welcome investment. For example, the African Continental Free Trade Area, which Nigeria is yet to be a signatory to.” Should the country agree to a successful continental free trade area, local companies would expand beyond borders, create more well-paid jobs that will help in alleviating poverty and invariable bring more money to the country and boost economic growth. The challenge of placing the interests of foreign investors above local investors is that when the economy is in dire need of private capital, many foreign investors may close-shop and move to another economy that offers greater potential. Just like the case of the two global banks HSBC and UBS who recently closed their Nigerian businesses and moved out of the country. However, unlike foreign investors who can leave anytime and plunge the economy into a worse feat than it previously was, local businesses remain loyal to grow their economy as it also profits their businesses. The Central Bank of Nigeria (CBN) said in November that foreign direct investment dropped from N532.63 billion ($1.7 billion) in 2017 to N379.84 billion ($1.2 billion) in the first half of 2018. This was before the exit of the banks which have shaken investor confidence in the country.