Ratings agency Moody’s Investor Service has downgraded the baseline credit assessment (BCA) of Nigeria’s Diamond Bank to caa3 from caa1, reflecting weakened solvency, governance tensions and foreign currency liquidity challenges. The rating action came weeks after the Bank’s Chairman and  and three other non-executive board members resigned. Moody’s says the resignation of the executives “and the subsequent announcement of the bank’s third quarter financial results which showed a lack of progress in reducing problematic exposures, in contrast with the improvements that the rating agency had expected” led to its decision. The Bank posted a loss of N144.6 million in the third quarter of 2018, continuing it abysmal performance of late. “The downgrade reflects Diamond’s (1) weak solvency that is characterised by low provisions set aside for its high level of non-performing loans (NPLs) that outsize its tangible common equity (TCE), (2) corporate governance tensions that will likely divert management’s focus from resolving NPLs and could potentially undermine investor confidence, and (3) vulnerable foreign currency repayment obligations in 2019. Meanwhile, the ratings continue to incorporate Moody’s assessment of a high probability of government support, in case of need,” a statement made available to The Nerve Africa by Moody’s said. According to the ratings agency, Diamond Bank will face further deterioration of its solvency. This it believes, is likely to undermine investor confidence and make foreign currency funding increasingly costly and difficult to access. Best case scenario is that the bank receives external capital support from either existing or new shareholders, or from the government, helping it to boost solvency and address foreign currency vulnerability. Moody’s also downgraded Diamond Bank’s long-term local currency and foreign currency deposit ratings to Caa1 from B3. The rating agency placed the deposit and other senior ratings and assessments on review with direction uncertain. The ratings would be downgraded further in the event the bank fails to boost its solvency and foreign currency profile, or if Moody’s assessment of government support is reduced from high. This is, however, unlikely, as the government sees Diamond Bank as a systemically important bank domestically. However, Diamond Bank could get an upgrade if it increases its capital and provisions to cover the bank’s NPLs while meeting minimum regulatory requirements. Diamond Bank’s NPLs ratio stood at about 40 percent of gross loans as of September 2018 from 42 percent at year-end 2017, and only about 20 percent of the NPL stock is covered by provisions.