A consortium led by top oil trader, Vitol has agreed to acquire 50 percent stake in Brazilian Petroleo Brasileiro SA’s (Petrobras) offshore fields in Nigeria. This deal valued at $1.5 billion will help Petrobras reduce its assets outside Brazil as it plans to focus on the pre-salt region in the country’s deep waters. Vitol’s partners in the transaction are Africa Oil Corp. and the oil upstream subsidiary of U.S. private equity firm Warburg Pincus called Delonex Energy. The remaining 50 percent stake in the enterprise will be owned by BTG Pactual E&P B.V. “Vitol has a long history of investing in Nigeria’s energy sector. We are pleased and proud to add this significant upstream asset to our infrastructure and downstream Nigerian investments. POGBV has a strong non-operated portfolio, managed by Chevron and Total and which represents circa 20% of Nigerian production. Vitol looks forward to continuing to grow and invest in Nigeria,” said Russell Hardy, CEO of Vitol. In November last year,  Petrobras initiated the sale of 100 percent of Petrobras Oil & Gas BV, or Petrobras Africa, as part of its strategy to offload $21 billion in assets in 2018 to save the company that is heavily-indebted and also facing a massive corruption scandal. Petrobras’ huge debt burden is regarded as the largest of any publicly traded oil company. The deal comes three days after Jair Bolsonaro won Brazil’s presidential election and defeated a left-wing candidate who had criticized Petrobras’s asset disposal program. Petrobras assets in Nigeria include an eight percent interest in Oil Mining Lease (“OML”) 127, which contains the producing Agbami Field, operated by Chevron, and an indirect 16 percent interest in OML 130, operated by Total S.A. OML 130 contains the producing Akpo Field and the Egina Field, which is expected to start production by the end of 2018. According to statements released by  Petrobras and Vitol, the deal which is an upfront payment of $1.5 billion also includes an additional payment of up to $123 million to be made when the Agbami field in Nigeria is reassigned to the new owners. The Agbami and Akpo fields have been producing since 2008 and 2009, respectively.  As of 2017, Agbami field, the major asset in the deal produced about 240,000 bpd of light sweet crude and  Akpo field produced 130,000 bpd of condensate. What you should know about Petrobras Petrobras is a semi-public Brazilian multinational corporation in the petroleum industry headquartered in Rio de Janeiro, Brazil. The company’s name translates to Brazilian Petroleum Corporation — Petrobras. The firm operates in six energy business areas which include: refining, transportation and marketing, exploration and production, distribution, gas and power, international and biofuels. The company holds half of its shares while 40 percent is held by a subsidiary of Grupo BTG Pactual SA and 10 percent by Helios Investment Partners. Bankers have previously estimated the value of the Petrobras venture to be about $2 billion. Petrobras controls significant oil and energy assets in 16 countries in Africa, North America, South America, Europe, and Asia. 