The resurgence of feminism that began around 2012 and is associated with the use of social media — regarded as the fourth-wave feminism — and which has its focus on justice for women, particularly opposition to street and sexual harassment, rape culture, forced marriage, female genital mutilation, forced sterilization and much more, has essentially come to stay in Africa’s internet sphere, finding solace in the safety of organising to challenge misogyny and all its effects in society, in virtual spaces such as Facebook, Twitter, Instagram, YouTube, Tumblr, and blogs. Several scandals have galvanized the movement, including the Delhi gang rape (2012), Bill Cosby sexual assault cases (2014), Harvey Weinstein allegations (2017) and subsequent ‘Me Too’ movement and Weinstein effect. In Nigeria, not oddly enough for a nation who holds its famous jollof rice close to its chest, the everyday gender role issues of cooking, care for the elderly, and domestic work, which take up time, but remain largely unpaid, take precedence alongside other catalysts. This time often affects the ability to get an education and encourages the breeding of women for marriage, some of whom are married off as children. On average, women spend six times more time than men on unpaid care work — cooking, cleaning, collecting water and firewood, and caring for children, the ill and the elderly. Again, ratios vary considerably across countries, ranging from 2 times more in Nigeria to 17 times more in Mali. Even though involving more women in political decisions could significantly improve the economy, majority of African nations are yet to implement laws which advance the role of women. Lack of basic infrastructure and public services exacerbates the burden of domestic and care work traditionally viewed as a female prerogative. In Kenya, a bill for political parties to attempt to reserve 30 percent of parliamentary seats for women was suggested, but not passed. Nigeria’s president Muhammadu Buhari also reflects this idea held by its mostly patriarchal society in a speech that infamously referred to the role of the first lady as belonging in the kitchen in response to criticisms from her. On a visit to Germany, he said: “I don’t know which party my wife belongs to, but she belongs to my kitchen and my living room and the other room.” Gender roles are not only hindering the potential of women in Africa, but they are also hindering Africa’s potential. While women in Africa do the lion’s share of work, they are not as valued as men. African feminists, who are part of this fourth wave continue to advocate for the rights of women. Most who are well traveled, still face backlash due to the clash of these norms which have been embedded in societies and communities as culture. Some of these have been held on tightly with the logic that African customs and traditions are different and should not be influenced by the West. Others are imbued with religious undertones in order to give them legitimacy and ensure adherence to them. To this, Morgan Stanley’s Carla Harris tells TheNerve Africa at the Women in Management workshop organised by the Chartered Financial Analyst (CFA) Society Nigeria, that there isn’t a culture that does not evolve. “If [a people] are evolving around the rest of the world in order to be competitive in the global world that we’re all living in, then I think that you have to do what you need to do in order to catch up,” Carla Harris says. “I think that young women who see the opportunity, who may venture outside the continent and come back, I think bringing back ways of doing things differently is a good thing that helps us to evolve overall. But it’s not easy. Everybody is pushing against you and you’re pushing the other way.” Companies have begun to design a system whereby a quota of entries are to be filled by women. Even though some have their doubts against it, citing the irrelevance of gender in who gets the job done, Harris argues that this has to be until it becomes a norm. “We’re living in a world where innovation is the dominant competitive parameter and innovation is fueled by ideas,” Ms. Carla Harris says. “If you don’t avail yourself of all of the intellect, all of the experience, all of the ideas that are out there, then you’re likely to miss something when you’re trying to bring a product or a process to market.” Despite some progress, gender equality remains unfinished business worldwide. Passing laws and devising national strategies are not enough. Legal loopholes and customary practices often weaken women’s rights especially in African nations where girls can still marry under the age of 18. Greater investment in the potential of women in Africa could equate to a significant boost for the economy, and closing gender gaps in labour force participation would have significant macroeconomic consequences, with substantial income increases ranging from 1% of gross domestic product (GDP) in Ghana and Liberia to 31% of GDP in Nigeria.