Eritrea will blossom soon. The country, which is one of Africa’s poorest, has been held back by repressions locally, squabbles with neighbours and sanctions by the United Nations (UN). But the situations that have slowed the country’s progress are changing. In July, Eritrea signed a peace deal with Ethiopia, ending a state of war that had existed between both countries since a 1998-2000 conflict — a state of war that the Eritrean government had used as an excuse for militarization of the country. Following the deal, UN Secretary General Antonio Guterres gave a hint the organisation’s sanctions against the country, which Foreign Minister Osman Mohammed Saleh said caused the country “considerable economic damage” and “unnecessary hardships”, would end. “The sanctions were motivated by a number of events that took place, (but) it is my belief that those events will no longer exist … If the reasons that led to the sanctions will no longer exist … they will naturally become obsolete,” Guterres told reporters. Four months after his statement, the UN Security Council is finally preparing to lift sanctions on Eritrea. According to AFP, Britain circulated a draft resolution to the council on Thursday that calls for lifting the arms embargo and all travel bans, asset freezes and targeted sanctions on the country. The council is to vote on the proposed resolution on November 14 after which the sanctions are expected to be lifted. Despite the July peace deal with Ethiopia, the United States, backed by France and Britain had insisted that Eritrea would have to show progress on respect for human rights before sanctions could be lifted. However, the country’s stance changed recently, with reports crediting US national security adviser John Bolton as influencing the change in position. Bolton dealt with the Eritrea-Ethiopia conflict when he served as the United States’ ambassador to the UN. The countries of the Horn of Africa had also united in the call for an end to the sanctions. The Security Council imposed sanctions on Eritrea in 2009 for “its destabilizing role” in neighboring countries. Post-sanctions Eritrea The lifting of sanctions is also expected to bring about change in travel advisory by different western countries that have issued warnings to their citizens about traveling to Eritrea. This will help the Horn of African country to consolidate on its recent impressive economic growth as it opens up and integrate into the broader regional and global economy. The country’s GDP has grown at an average of 4.25 percent over the last four years. This will even get better over the coming years, with repaired relations with neighbours and commitment of countries in the Horn of Africa to growing together economically. Although the country’s Central Bank does not release official data on FDI, UNCTAD puts FDI flows to Eritrea at $55 million in 2017. The total stock of FDI was estimated at 16.4 percent of GDP for 2017. This is expected to further increase once the UN lifts sanctions and the country works hard to fight corruption and improve the judicial system, among other needed reforms.