The South African arm of the global auditing firm, KPMG, on Wednesday, 3 October 2018 said it was looking for an external Chief Executive Officer to restore its reputation. By 28 November, the company announced its search is over as it has appointed Ignatius Simon Sehoole, the former deputy CEO of PwC Southern Africa, to head the company by 1 May 2019. Ignatius Sehoole is assuming the chief executive position, a position previously occupied by Nhlamulo Dlomu because, in the words of KPMG South Africa, “given the scale of the reputational challenges facing both KPMG and the industry, the board has decided that a new chief executive from outside the firm, with strong industry experience, will optimise prospects of rebuilding trust.” Executive chair of the firm, Wiseman Nkuhlu- who would revert to non-executive chair come 1 May- stated that “Sehoole will be able to build on the foundations Nhlamu established to restore trust in KPMG. He will also participate in efforts to reposition the profession with clients and the public.” KPMG South Africa is still under investigation for jobs done for companies owned by the Gupta brothers who are accused of using their friendship with former President, Jacob Zuma to divert state funds. Both have denied wrongdoing, however, KPMG South Africa still suffers a reputational damage that has caused it lots of high profile clients. The firm was the auditor for VBS Mutual Bank that collapsed because of a liquidity crisis. The company was also forced to withdraw the findings of a report it compiled for South Africa’s tax agency that was used as evidence in a police probe against former Finance Minister Pravin Gordhan. Following the series of scandals, the firm overhauled its leadership; making room for Sehoole— an experienced leader in the accounting profession and a two-term (2000-2009) executive president of the South African Institute of Chartered Accountants (SAICA). Seehoole, who is looking to restore investor confidence and make KPMG top of mind said, “I am very honoured and look forward to the opportunity to help lead KPMG SA. It is imperative that the profession rises to the challenges it is facing, and it is in the national interest that KPMG is part of the solution.” In Sehoole portfolio is the Independent Non-Executive Director position from PPC Ltd were he served from 13 April 13 2018. Until 8 October 2018, he was an Independent Non-Executive Director at Old Mutual Ltd. He also served as Group Executive of Business Risk Management at MTN Group Limited from 31 March 2012 to 2013 and thereafter became the Vice President of The South & East Africa Region from November 2010 to 31 March 2012. He has been Independent Non-Executive Director at Efora Energy Limited since 12 July 2013, an Independent Non-Executive Director of Residual Debt Services Limited since 28 July 2015, Director at South Africa’s Old Mutual Life Assurance Company since 20 November 2017 and also served as Director of African Bank Limited until 16 October 2017. Sehoole served as a Senior Executive at Murray & Roberts Contractors between 1998 and 1999 where he was responsible for mergers, acquisitions and disposals, as well as feasibility studies for green fields operations. He also worked at Fedics Food Services as Group Internal Audit Manager and a year later became its General Manager Finance. He was Operations Director and as Managing Director in Inland Region where he looked after the productivity, quality, human resources, client satisfaction and financial performance aspects of his division and then to the Managing Director of Inland Region from 1992 to 1997. With so much expertise and experience in his portfolio, KPMG South Africa will be hoping that Sehoole can successfully restore their reputation soon enough.