When it comes to policy making, child protection should be a priority. Unfortunately, the Malawian government thinks otherwise, and has decided that a bill to set up a National Children’s Commission to address child issues as well as protect Malawi children is unnecessary. Malawi has a young population – having 53 percent of its 17 million people aged 18 years and below. 16.7 percent of children under 18 are Orphans and Vulnerable Children (OVC), while almost one million of the OVC’s have lost one or both parents to AIDS. But the Minister of Finance, Economic Planning and Development Goodall Gondwe disapproved the private member’s bill saying “We have no money from the consolidated fund for such a thing.” The bill was moved by Lilongwe central Member of Parliament, Robin Lowe of main opposition Malawi Congress Party (MCP) as a private member’s bill on Thursday 29 November 2018. Speaker of parliament Richard Msowoya noted that bills of that nature needed the blessing of the government and asked for the opinion of the country’s Finance Minister who then disapproved. According to Goodall Gondwe, “I have not been consulted on this Bill. I would like to say any commission of this nature would have an imposition on the Consolidated Fund. As such, with the programmes that we have at the moment, this is not the time for us to add more bodies to rely on the Consolidated Fund. I would, therefore, not encourage that we proceed with this Bill.” Even the country’s Minister of Gender, Children, Disability and Social welfare, Cecilia Chazama who promised to sponsor young girls back to school said Lowe did not follow the right procedures before tabling the bill. Children in Malawi engage in the worst forms of child labor, including the harvesting tobacco and commercial sexual exploitation. In 2017, 43.2 percent of children aged 5-14 were among the working population. Poverty, hunger, HIV and AIDS and inadequate social services combine to create circumstances where child abuse, exploitation and violence are very common among children. Since the early 1990s, Malawi has ranked amongst the world’s 20 least developed countries on the Human Development Index. More than half of the population (52 percent), including around four million children in poverty live on less than USD $ 0.32 a day and over 10 percent of school-aged children do not attend primary school. 