Three years after raising  $80 million alongside a $10 million co-investment facility, Nairobi based venture capital fund manager, Novastar Ventures announced that it held the first close of its second venture fund and secured $75.5 million in commitment from its existing investors. The company plans to open an office in Lagos Nigeria as it expands to West Africa. This second venture fund was gotten from its investors which includes AXA Impact Fund II, CDC Group, European Investment Bank, Dutch Good Growth Fund and FMO. “Our vision is to see sub-Saharan Africa populated with a growing number of high-capacity entrepreneurs building innovative businesses that serve the common good. We aim to demonstrate that commercial venture investing can generate both large-scale social benefits for the mass market and attractive financial returns for investors, thereby unlocking more capital to fuel entrepreneurship in the region,” said Novastar co-founder and managing partner Steve Beck. Just like its first fund, the Novastar II is a multi-round investor with the scale and flexibility to tailor support to each portfolio company’s stage of development. The fund can invest as little as $250,000 in an unproven business model addressing a big problem in a big market. Following initial small funding rounds, Novastar can then fund the rapid growth stage of portfolio companies with more than $6 million through multiple capital rounds. “We have seen how flexible long-term capital, coupled with local knowledge and innovative business models has catalyzed rapid growth in some truly exceptional enterprises in East Africa, thereby attracting substantial investment from a new category of investors. By establishing a presence in Lagos, with its concentration of talented entrepreneurs addressing a vast market, we want to be the spark to a similar cohort of innovative businesses generating social and economic value for the mass market, attracting substantial investment into West Africa as well,” Novastar co-founder and Managing Partner Andrew Carruthers said, while explaining the expansion to Lagos. What you should know about Novastar Novastar is a venture capital fund manager dedicated to finding and growing entrepreneurs in East Africa and now West Africa. Novastar backs early and growth stage businesses led by entrepreneurs with the capability and ambition to transform markets and sectors. These businesses address proven demand for basic goods and services with innovative business models that widen access, improve quality, and lower cost of basic goods and services for the aspiring mass market in emerging economies. Novastar Ventures East Africa Fund I reached its target of $80 million. This was used to fund some of the most innovative social enterprises in East Africa which includes PayGo Energy a distribution service that harnesses the power of pay-as-you-go-technology to unlock clean energy for those who cannot otherwise afford it. Lynk Jobs, a technology platform that safely and conveniently connects households and businesses with qualified informal workers across a wide range of services including plumbing, housekeeping, carpentry and cooking. GreenPath a speciality food company that produces and sources premium, organic food products from a network of smallholder farming families. Penda Health a chain of outpatient medical centres to bring high-quality healthcare to East Africa’s aspiring mass market families. Poa Internet provides low-cost internet to individuals and small businesses in low-income neighbourhoods in East Africa.