Recently, the president of Rwanda, Paul Kagame and the Executive Chairman of Alibaba Group, Jack ma signed three Memoranda of Understanding on behalf of the  Government of Rwanda and the Alibaba Group. These agreements will enable Alibaba to establish an electronic world trade platform (eWTP) hub in the East African country. “I am delighted that Rwanda is the first eWTP partner in Africa, and I look forward to the development of an innovative digital economy here,” said Jack Ma, Founder and Executive Chairman of Alibaba Group.  “Entrepreneurs in Rwanda, and elsewhere in Africa, are ready to seize the opportunities offered by the digital economy. It is up to all of us to help them succeed.” The deal, which is the first in Africa will help strengthen cooperation that will lead to economic development by enabling cross-border trade of Rwandan products to Chinese consumers, boosting tourism to Rwanda, and providing capacity building to empower the growth of Rwanda’s digital economy. “The Electronic World Trade Platform opens up new frontiers in e-commerce and tourism for Rwanda, and will also boost the capacity and competitiveness of our entrepreneurs and businesspeople,” said President Paul Kagame. “Rwandan producers will be able to sell directly to a much larger set of customers than before while bypassing costly intermediaries. This improves productivity and profitability. There really are no downsides to doing business on a global scale,” he said further.  What you need to know about the deal Under the agreements, Alibaba will work with the Rwanda Development Board (RDB) to help Rwandan SMEs sell their products, including coffee and handicrafts, to Chinese consumers through Alibaba’s online marketplaces. “We are committed to leveraging the digital economy to support our exporters, local producers and artisans. We have already seen tremendous attention from Chinese consumers on Alibaba’s platforms in high-quality Rwandan products such as our top-tier single estate coffee, and we are confident that local products and travel experiences will continue to receive interest and support from the more than half a billion consumers on Alibaba’s platforms,” said RDB Chief Executive Officer, Clare Akamanzi. Alibaba’s travel services platform, Fliggy, and the RDB will also work together to promote the East African country as a tourist destination through a Rwanda Tourism Store for booking flights, hotels and travel experiences. The platform will also be a Destination Pavilion where Chinese consumers can learn about visiting the country, including its beautiful natural parks, through engaging video content. Ant Financial, an affiliate of Alibaba will share expertise in inclusive financial tools, such as mobile payments, to support the Rwandan digital economy. Alibaba will also be providing capacity building to academics, policymakers and entrepreneurs on how to grow a digital economy. In August this year, fifty lecturers from Rwanda’s top higher institutions attended the first Global E-commerce Talent Program (GET) organized by Alibaba Business School in partnership with the Ministry of Education’s Higher Education Council and the RDB. GET is a five-day course to boost the competencies of Rwandan university teachers and deepen their understanding of the e-commerce industry, so they can train digital talent and future entrepreneurs to compete in the global economy. Alibaba will also in January 2019, host a three-day workshop at its headquarters in Hangzhou in order to showcase the nature, capabilities and promise of a new digital economy This will be done through the first-hand experience with digital finance, logistics, e-commerce and big data industries.  This workshop will be attended by a delegation of Ministers and government officials responsible for the development of Rwanda’s digital economy. The Chinese billionaire will support Rwandan entrepreneurs through programs such as the eFounders Fellowship. In partnership with UNCTAD, Alibaba is training 1,000 entrepreneurs from emerging markets over five years. Two hundred of those entrepreneurs will come from Africa. Five Rwandan entrepreneurs have already graduated from the eFounders Fellowship program.