Shell’s alleged involvement in a fraudulent deal that may cost Nigeria $6 billion is the latest in its history of shady dealings in the country. The Dutch multinational has been involved in a spate of unlawful acts over the past four decades, the latest involving Italian oil firm Eni. Together, they fraudulently acquired oil prospecting licence (OPL) 245, one of Africa’s most valuable oil blocks, which Eni says has an estimated recoverable reserves of 560 million barrels. Shell had for years denied any wrongdoing until internal Shell emails seen by investigative jornalism network Finance Uncovered and Global Witness, an international NGO exposing corruption and environmental abuse, showed that senior Shell executives knew that the $1.1. billion that the company and Eni was paying in 2011, for the undeveloped deepwater plot would go to former Minister of Petroleum Dan Etete, a convicted money launderer who served under Nigerian dictator General Sanni Abacha. Etete had in 1998 allocated the oil block to Malabu Oil and Gas, a company he secretly owned. He was said to have paid a fifth of the cost of the block. According to Global Witness, the 2011 Resolution Agreement (RA) called for a “production sharing agreement” to be signed between Shell and Eni. However, it did not call for a Production Sharing Contract (PSC) to be signed between the international oil companies and the state oil company NNPC, as would normally be the case. “As a result, two central features of a Nigerian PSC — Cost Oil to compensate the contractor and a share of Profit Oil allocated to the government — have  been removed from the current Block 245 fiscal regime,” Global Witness noted. Global Witness also indicted former President Goodluck Jonathan who the emails seen by the organisation showed, is one of the most powerful people in the country likely to get part of the money paid by the oil companies. Shell and Eni, together with some of their most senior executives are now facing bribery charges in Nigeria and Italy. If found guilty, the execs may go to prison, while their companies pay enormous fines and most likely asked to forfeit OPL 245. An analysis by Resources for Development Consulting, a partner to Global Witness, showed that by the murky deal, Shell and Eni have deprived Nigerians a potential $6 billion revenue which would have been used to improve lives in Nigeria, which has the highest number of poor people in the world. Shell’s other sins in Nigeria In 1996, several human rights groups, including  the Center for Constitutional Rights (CCR), EarthRights International (ERI), Paul Hoffman of Schonbrun, DeSimone, Seplow, Harris & Hoffman and other human rights attorneys instituted a series of cases to hold Shell accountable for alleged human rights violations in Nigeria. Among other things, Shell was accused of playing an active role in the execution of Niger Delta environmental activist Ken Saro Wiwa and eight other leaders of the Ogoni tribe of southern Nigeria. In 2009, Shell agreed to pay $15.5 million in a legal settlement. The oil company has also been criticized for gas flaring — proven to cause several adverse health impacts — by different organisations. It has also been condemned for its slow response to oil spills. Documents released in 2009 reveal that Shell paid the Nigerian military regularly to prevent protests. A leaked cable, in 2010, also revealed that Shell claims to have infiltrated all the main ministries of the Nigerian government and know “everything” done in those ministries. Shell’s involvement in one of the biggest ever corporate corruption scandal adds to the list of its wrongs in Nigeria. When contacted for comments following RDC’s analysis, Shell declined but said: “The statements in your letter are based on faulty methodologies which do not meet adequate qualitative standard. They fail to take into account elements that are typically used by the industry (e.g., geology), make wrongful
factual assumptions (such as by using obsolete of irrelevant data), misconstrue the terms of the
2011 settlement and even reference legislation which has not been passed.” However, Eni claimed it would be “inappropriate for us to comment on such circumstances outside the court” since the company was undergoing trial. The oil firm also added that “the technical and contractual assumptions adopted as the basis for the analysis appear to be partial and inaccurate, if not misleading.” According to the Financial Times, Global Witness director, who was a witness in the trial in Italy has argued that the Nigerian government should revoke the OPL 245 licence considering the current economic situation in the country. Nigeria is not generating enough revenue, with a large chunk of what it currently generates going into debt repayment. Revocation of the OPL 245 licence is one of the several options available to the government to be able to increase revenue. The report comes as Nigeria pussyfoots on its Petroleum Industry Governance Bill (PIGB), which is the first part of the petroleum industry bill (PIB) that has been in the works for more than a decade. The new industry governance framework is supposed to entrench transparency and sustainability of oil and gas operations in Nigeria and ensure that the country generate fair revenue from oil. 