When Nigerian music star, Olawale Ashimi better known by his stage name Brymo said musicians who “suddenly” drop music for politics are “thieves”, many would agree with his sentiments. After all, the Nigerian political sphere, though a constitutional right for every citizen, is projected more as a full fledged career for some. The ‘Oleku‘ singer stated this in an interview with Sahara TV at the recently concluded 2018 Ake Books and Arts Festival. “So, you’ve been a musician for 10 to 15 years, and suddenly you dump that to go and become a politician and run for office. You’re just a thief, because there are issues in the entertainment industry you can take part in to fix. Why do you have to run for public office? There are things you can do as a musician in your own music industry and make things better there. If you cannot make things better there, how are you going to make things better in public office? … Let musicians be musicians and let politicians be politicians; let everybody do their job.” This message was probably in reference to previous musical acts who have threaded the murky waters of politics in the country. Kingsley Okonkwo, the musician popularly known as Kcee, with a poster that was widely shared on social media, announced his intention to contest for the governorship elections in Anambra State in September 2017. His colleague, Terry G whose real name is Gabriel Ochie Amanyi, and whose accidental hit released a decade ago titled ‘Free Madness’ razed across states and platforms, announced his intention to be part of the gubernatorial race in Benue State for the 2015 elections, and 9ice Alapomeji, in 2014 actually contested and lost a bid for a seat in the House of Representatives for his native Ogbomosho in Oyo state at the party primaries. Nigerian music veteran, Olubankole Wellington, popularly known as ‘Banky W’, however, did not get or blatantly ignored the memo put out by Brymo days earlier as he announced on 10 November his intention to run for the Eti Osa Constituency in the Lagos state House of Representatives in the 2019 general elections. At an announcement event on Saturday where he stated his cause, the artiste revealed that he is ready to run on the platform of the Modern Democratic Party (MDP), a political party founded in 2017 by a coalition of different youth associations. “They said we don’t have the money to run.. we say our strength lies in our numbers,” the award-winning singer spoke as soft piano music played in the background of a video shared on his Instagram page. “They said we don’t have the structure, we say we will attempt to build it. They said “what if you lose”? I say, what if we win?” he continued in the inspiring speech where his wife, Adesua Etomi, and other supporters were present. With the 2019 elections coming soon, Wellington hopes to redress the focus on the presidential seat which for the past two election cycles have been contested between the two major political parties APC and PDP despite the presence of other parties. Also, he addresses the key challenge with the smaller parties: significant presence at the grassroot level. Mr. Wellington also hopes to garner interest and inspire other young people to get actively involved in leadership in order to change Nigeria’s political narrative. The singer himself has spoken at conferences with the same theme across the country. Earlier in 2018, the R&B artiste spoke about active citizenship at TEDx Lagos highlighting the need for young Nigerians to stop whining and take charge by voting and contesting for elective positions. Beyond musicians seeking elections, however, it is not uncommon for Nigerian artistes to use activism as a tool for political change. The late Fela Kuti is perhaps the most remembered and a reference point, himself choosing to criticize from the outside and refusing to be associated with political leaders of any nature. Younger contemporary acts like 2Baba, the African Queen crooner had attempted to organise a protest against the Nigerian government in 2017 but backed out at the last minute, sparking both condemnations and commendations. Charly Boy, a pop act popular in 1980s, has kept up the pace with his platform “Our Mumu Don Do”, even joining a protest insisting on the resignation of current President Muhammadu Buhari who had been away from Nigeria on health grounds for months. Still, the majority of Nigerian celebrities have often been accused of being aloof to issues plaguing the majority of their audience, and reactions to their intentions have been equally divisive. As Banky W joins the growing list of Nigerian entertainers who have switched lanes by delving into politics, the reactions have been a mixture of delight and derision. Some quote the lull in the entertainment industry, while others echo Brymo’s sentiments. Others, however, point to the current Liberian president who had successful years as a footballer before his election as President.   They said we don’t have the money to run.. we say we our strength lies in our numbers. They said we don’t have the structure, we say we will attempt to build it. They said “what if you lose”? I say, what if we win? You see, my entire life has been a story of just dreaming dreams, praying about those dreams, setting goals, and working until they come true. I can live with trying and failing. I can not live with not trying. So while we may not have a godfather, we do have God. And we have vision. And intellectual capacity. And integrity. And the right intentions. And last but not least, a whole lot of hope. At the end of the day, hope may be all we have, but I believe that it is all we need. Thank you and God bless Nigeria. #Hope19 #EtiOsa #MDP A post shared by  Banky W. (@bankywellington) on Nov 10, 2018 at 2:34pm PST It’s less than 93 days to the 2019 Nigeria General Elections, and there has been a growing agitation among its youth for power to be transitioned from the older generation of political elites to the younger ones who make up majority of its population. It is this call which generated the ‘Not Too Young To Run Bill’, passed by the Nigerian senate and signed into law in May. The bill now enables contest for presidential elections at age 35 while the minimum age for becoming a governor or senator will be 30. Previously, aspirants had to be five years older in each case. For Banky W’s ambition, there are the usual doubts. How does this affects his music and art? Is this a retirement plan? Was he really good in music to begin with? — this, especially, as musicians in their prime rarely consider dropping that life for one of politics, and then of course, how will he propose a different path while being a part of the desperation and violence that is a recurrent part of the country’s politics? “It’s not worth it,” Singer 9ice, who was later named as a Special Adviser to the Oyo state Governor, Senator Abiola Ajimobi, told journalist Funmi Iyanda on her YouTube series ‘Ask Funmi’. “It will take the grace of Almighty God to reshape Nigeria into what we dream of. It’s not by intellectual capacity. We have tried that and it’s not working.” 9ice has since moved back to music, releasing the hit ‘Living things’ in 2017, and his album “G.O.A.T.” in March 2018. The relationship between entertainment and politics may not be a special one after all. The average man can surely relate with feeling helpless and wanting to do something about his immediate situation. But the entertainment industry offers an edge above the often invisible common man. One is seen, and the desire to get involved with governance and make a difference is amplified by the visibility and position an artiste garners from his craft. Even in facing one’s music squarely, there are decisions by lawmakers that still affect the artiste, and for how long can an artiste offer just hope and respite through songs and words? This seems to be the foundation Banky W has built his campaign on, as he doles out hope this time not in songs but in political campaign message which has been tagged alongside the theme Hope’19. “Until the day that we decide as a generation, to get involved with the affairs of our country, nothing will EVER really change,” Olubankole Wellington says. “Getting a voter’s card alone is no longer enough; because that does not give you a say in putting up the kind of candidates that you believe in. We must take things one step further by building a new political platform for this generation. One that is not built for selfish interests.. but one that is built off of a shared vision and ideals. One that will put up the right kind of candidates: people with Integrity, the right intentions and the intellectual capacity to lead. People with vision and the ability to execute. “And this vision is for beyond 2019, and for more than just the office of the President. It’s about every electable office in this country. We must start now to build a movement towards 2023 and beyond, otherwise, in every election we will find ourselves in this exact same spot. We want to fix Nigeria, but we must begin by rebuilding our communities. … I do believe in dreaming big, but I believe in starting small, and working your way up.” This time, hopefully, the artiste does not slip into the obscurity that usually accompanies acts who have made similar decisions.