The Monetary Policy Committee (MPC) of the South African Reserve Bank (SARB) has increased the repurchase rate (repo) by 25 basis points to 6.75 percent, effective 23 November, Governor Lesetja Kganyago announced on Thursday. According to the governor, the increase was due to “shocks of a persistent nature”, including extended periods of currency depreciation, elevated oil prices and multi-year electricity price increases, which made it difficult to disentangle first- and second-round effects. “The approach of the MPC is to look through the first-round effects and focus on the possible second-round effects of supply side shocks. However, the MPC had to decide whether to act now or later. Given the relative stability in the underlying core inflation measure, delaying the adjustment could give the MPC room to re-assess these unfolding developments in subsequent meetings,” Kganyago said. He noted that delaying the adjustment could cause inflation expectations to become entrenched at higher levels and thus contribute to second-round effects, which would then require a stronger monetary policy response. Kganyago said monetary policy actions will continue to focus on anchoring inflation expectations near the mid-point of the inflation target range in the interest of balanced and sustainable growth. Meanwhile, one of South Africa’s “big four” banks FNB has confirmed that it would increase its prime lending rate to 10.25 percent from 10 percent, effective 23 November, following SARB’s repo rate decision. “While this may seem punitive to borrowers, a higher interest rate serves the best interests of all consumers especially those with limited income who are most vulnerable to higher prices. Today’s rate hike will also bring some relief to pensioners who are dependent on income from their interest-bearing investments,” FNB chief executive Jacques Celliers said. In Nigeria, the central bank’s MPC held lending rate at 14 percent as The Nerve Africa reported it would do. In a unanimous vote to retain lending rate at its current level, the committee also retained the Cash Reserve Requirement (CRR) at 22.5 percent and Liquidity Ratio at 30 percent. The lending rate has been held at 14 percent since 2016. “The MPC considered the options to loosen, hold or tighten,” said central bank governor Godwin Emefiele, while addressing the media on Thursday on the outcome of the MPC meeting. “The MPC recognises the fact that it had held the policy rate and other policy parameters constant over the last several meetings. The Committee underscores that by holding its policy position constant, it has confidence in the various policies and administrative measures deployed by the CBN which have resulted in the moderation in domestic price levels and stability in the foreign exchange rate. Thus, a hold position is an expression of confidence in the policy regime, given the gradual improvements in both output growth and price stability. “On this premise, the downside risks to growth and upside risks to inflation appears contained,” Emefiele said. Inflation eased to 11.26 percent year-on-year in October 2018 from 11.28 recorded a month earlier.