Carla Harris is no stranger to speaking about the corporate world and how to move from just being good at your job to winning at your career, having given hundreds of speeches and interviews about the keys to getting ahead and finding your voice. One of the most powerful black executives in corporate America, she’s written two books on success Expect to Win: Proven Strategies For Success From a Wall Street Vet and Strategize to Win: The New Way to Start Up, Step Out, or Start Over in Your Career. She also has a website dedicated to her gems of wisdom which she calls Carla’s pearls. On the 8 and 9 November, she shared her knowledge with a new audience in Nigeria at the Nigeria Investment Conference and Women In Investment Management workshop organised by the Chartered Financial Analyst Society Nigeria (CFA) which held at Eko Convention Centre, Lagos. It was Harris’ first-ever event in the West African country and questions from the crowd where numerous as she doled out career tips she’s learned over her 31-year career at Morgan Stanley where she started right out of business school in 1987, and of which she is now vice chairman of Wealth Management and senior client advisor. During the session, Harris spoke passionately about the two kinds of currency people earn at work: performance currency, which is about how good you are at what you do, and relationship currency, which is about the relationships you’ve built with decision-makers in your company. Harris, who in August 2013, was appointed by President Barack Obama to chair the National Women’s Business Council, emphasized how relationship currency is more valuable in the long run. “Performance currency will get you noticed, but it has diminishing marginal returns,” she said. “It is your relationships that allow you to maximize your success.” Ms. Harris captivated the crowd with her characteristic charm and energy while inspiring women to be more assertive and leaders to be more inclusive. In addition to her book, Strategize To Win, and the opportunity to be the backing choir of the acclaimed gospel singer, here are ten tips the audience left the conversation with: