Over a century ago, African countries fell into debt due to a heavy spate of borrowing. The situation became unbearable when repayments began to eclipse growth, grounding many governments to a halt as they were stuck servicing debt that made it almost impossible to provide basic services. However, it was not the borrowing that plunged Africa into its debt crises. Andrew Alli, former President and CEO of the Africa Finance Corporation who spoke to The Nerve Africa at the Nigerian Investment Conference organised by the Chartered Financial Analysts (CFA) Society Nigeria stated that “borrowing is not a bad thing, as long it is done in a sustainable way and can be repaid in the long-term.” In the early 1990’s, many African countries had a mountain of unpayable debt and by the mid-1990’s, the majority of these countries were frozen out of the global financial system. By 2018, the International Monetary Fund (IMF) confirmed that five sub-Saharan African countries are already in “debt distress” and nine more at high risk of joining them. There is a general consensus debt is a huge burden weighing heavily on African economies and thereby making it virtually impossible for them to attain sustainable development unless the burden is significantly reduced. Abebe Aemro Selassie, director of the Africa Department at the International Monetary Fund, has a counter opinion. According to him, ” much of Africa’s debt is manageable.” Borrowing for infrastructural development is feasible given it would improve the welfare of the people and support economic growth.  However, the keenest borrowers in Africa are also feckless spenders, especially in a country like Nigeria that is battling corruption. Currently, Nigeria’s debt to revenue ratio is extremely high at 63 percent and the International Monetary Fund, IMF has voiced its concerns about  Nigeria’s debt servicing capacity, following the imbalance between the country’s rising debt and its revenue. According to Andrew Alli, “There are all kinds of market, and I think that Nigeria is spending a lot on just servicing debts and certainly when you add what is spent on servicing debt and what is spent on government employees’ salaries, you would realize that it is more than the revenue we are earning as a country.” To avoid a debt crisis in Nigeria, the Debt Management Office, DMO pegged the country’s debt-to-GDP ratio at a 25 percent threshold, stating that the three tiers of government should not borrow more than $6.25 billion in 2018. For a country that needs to raise capital to fund the budget, its borrowing habits are not changing anytime soon. The disaster caused by over-borrowing can be averted in most African countries, especially Nigeria, if sudden spending cuts that leave unfinished infrastructure projects to waste are highly frowned out, the risk is equally shared among borrowers and lenders. But the ultimate way to avert disaster is to borrow in a sustainable manner that can be repaid in the long-term regardless of the government in power. Andrew Alli also stated that “one of the ways to ensure that borrowing is sustainable on the long run is by ensuring that what you are spending the borrowed money on is increasing revenue.”