Ratings agency Moody’s Investors Service says global credit conditions will weaken in 2019 as economic growth decelerates, funding costs increase, liquidity tightens and market volatility returns. However, countries like South Africa are expected to post recoveries, albeit weak, as the US-China trade dispute continues, as geopolitical risks rise and a global trade growth remains average. According to a new report by Moody’s, trade, political and geopolitical risks will likely escalate as tensions between the US and China heighten. Consequences of slower growth will also increasingly thrust globalization and inequality debates into the political arena. “The slowdown in economic growth will give way to even weaker global credit conditions in 2020, while the multitude of risks on the horizon are increasing both in number and severity,” says Elena Duggar, Chair of Moody’s Macroeconomic Board. “Tightening monetary policy, worsening economic disputes and slower demand from China are three key drivers that will dominate the weaker growth outlook,” Duggar adds. Hence, the external environment for emerging markets, which fundamentally shifted in 2018, will continue to weigh on growth in 2019. Emerging market economies, as well as some frontier markets, will remain vulnerable to spillovers from monetary policy normalization in advanced economies because of a likely further tightening of global liquidity, combined with currency pressures in emerging markets. Further tightening of funding conditions will strain liquidity for emerging economies reliant on external funding, the report says. “Countries with large current account deficits, low reserve buffers, high external debt repayments and substantial foreign-currency government debt are most exposed,” the report notes, adding that Ghana and Zambia are among the most vulnerable to US-dollar appreciation. Both African countries have debt to GDP ratios of more than 60 percent. source: tradingeconomics.com Zambia’s debt to GDP ratio at 61 percent means the southern African country will be required to maintain a debt service of at least $2.26 billion annually for the next twenty years if it would be able to liquidate the country’s current indebtedness. Sadly, copper, which makes up about three-quarters of Zambia’s exports, has been down by around 20 percent since its early June peak. The International Monetary Fund (IMF) had on different occasions raised alarm over Zambia’s growing appetite for debt and the impending debt crisis. The country’s external debt rose to $9.37 billion by the end of June from $8.7 billion in December 2017, making the IMF put planned loans to Zambia on hold. Ghana, whose debt to GDP ratio was 69.8 percent of GDP in March, the same month the IMF reviewed its $1 billion extended credit-facility program, is currently working to improve revenue collection to achieve its fiscal targets. source: tradingeconomics.com Moody’s says geopolitical and domestic political tensions will dominate the risk landscape for global credit conditions and credit quality in 2019, adding that tensions between the US and China will spread far beyond trade disputes, while the risk of the UK withdrawing from the EU without a trade agreement in place has risen. However, the ratings agency noted that advances in digital technologies will lead to improved productivity and disruption in different industries, as companies face the challenge of keeping up pace with a changing competitive landscape. Moody’s noted that cyber risks and data privacy issues will add to operational and reputational risks for governments and industries. Evolving social trends could also develop into challenges and opportunities for governments and industry, depending how they approach the trends. The ratings agency also foresees heightened focus on carbon transition risk in 2019 due to a rapid growth in new environmental regulations, stricter emissions standards, rapid technological advancements and shifting consumer preferences for green and sustainable products.