The African Export-Import Bank (Afreximbank) on Monday, 13 November signed a € 30 million agreement with Caisse des Dépôts et Consignations du Gabon (CDC Gabon) in order to support the operations of the tenants of the Gabon Special Economic Zone This facility will also provide them with the capacity to export their products. “The facility will indirectly support the Special Economic Zone to succeed as the first and largest industrial park in Gabon,” said Prof. Benedict Oramah, Afreximbank President said while speaking during the signing ceremony. Under the terms of the agreement, the facility will be used to finance the working capital needs of eligible companies in the Gabon Special Economic Zone to help them process timber and make it ready for export. Most of the processed exports are directed at neighbouring African countries,  which will, in turn, strengthen regional economic integration. This aligns with Afreimbank’s mandate of supporting intra-African trade, and export development and industrialization. Prof Oramah also said that “this collaboration opens the potential for our two institutions to strengthen our relationship and mutual cooperation in order to make significant contributions towards unlocking the full potentials of industrial parks and export processing zones and delivering the much-needed developmental impact on our continent.” In response to the agreement, the CEO of CDC Gabon, Herman Nzoundo BigNoumba, said that the facility would reinforce Gabon’s capacity in wood processing by making it possible to achieve first and second level processing, thereby moving the country beyond merely being a logging nation. It would support the government’s policy aimed at changing the way wood was treated in the country.” What you should know about Afreximbank Afrexim Bank is the foremost Pan-African multilateral financial institution devoted to financing and promoting African trade. It was established under two basic constitutive instruments: the agreement signed by the member states and multilateral organizations, which gives the bank the status of an international multilateral organization; and the Charter, which governs its corporate structure and operations. The bank was established in October 1993 by African governments, African private and institutional investors, and non-African investors. Afrexim Bank commenced operations on 30 September 1994, following the signature of a headquarters agreement with the host government in August 1994. Since 1994, it has approved more than 51 billion dollars in credit facilities for African businesses, including about 10.3 billion dollars in 2016. The bank is based in Cairo, Egypt and it is rated BBB+ (GCR), Baa1 (Moody’s), and BBB- (Fitch) and has total assets of 9.4 billion dollars as at April 30, 2016. Countries currently on the list of Afreximbank participating and shareholding states include Angola, Benin, Botswana, Burkina Faso, Burundi, Cameroon, Cape Verde, Chad, Comoros, Côte d’Ivoire, Democratic Republic of Congo, Djibouti, Egypt, Ethiopia, Gabon, Gambia, Ghana, Guinea, Guinea Bissau, Kenya, and Lesotho. Others are Liberia, Madagascar, Malawi, Mali, Mauritania, Mauritius, Morocco, Mozambique, Namibia, Niger, Nigeria, Republic of Congo, Rwanda, Senegal, Seychelles, Sierra Leone, Sao Tome and Principe, South Africa, South Sudan, Sudan, Tanzania, Togo, Tunisia, Uganda, Zambia and Zimbabwe. 