For close to a decade, Nigeria has been at war with Boko Haram, an Islamic extremist group in its North Eastern region. The battles have resulted in casualties involving both civilians and military personnel – the most popular being the abduction of over 200 school girls in Chibok town, Borno State, and lately, the massacre of over a hundred military personnel in Metele, Borno State. Over these years, the insurgents have sacked villages and towns, causing people to flee their homes to camps set up for displaced people. The Nigerian military has also recorded periodic push backs. With these issues in view, one would expect a quicker response from the government to equip the military with more sophisticated arms and machinery to fight the sect. But No! The country has to wait six years to get an aircraft that the government says will overpower the sect. On behalf of the Nigerian Air force, the United States Department of Defence awarded the contract for 12 A-29 Super Tucano combat aircraft. Procuring the aircraft (which is expected to be completed by 2024) according to Nigeria’s President Muhammadu Buhari, would help strengthen Nigeria’s national security as well as a timely end to the Boko Haram war. That is if timely means that the country enduring six more years of bomb blasts and killings. After years of declaring “technical” victory in the war against Boko Haram, just last week, the sect attacked the Army’s 157 Task Force Battalion, killing as much as 118 and injuring scores of the Multi-National Joint Task Force (MNJTF) contingent deployed against the insurgents. The manufacturing contract of the combat aircraft was awarded to Sierra Nevada Corporation, an American aerospace contractor, for an initial sum of $329 million. However, an “undefinitised contract action (UCA)” clause was added to the contract saying the contract sum could be varied, but will not exceed $344.7 million. This is mainly because contracts whose terms, specifications, or price are not agreed upon before work commences usually involve UCA, stated a defence contracting explainer. To paint a better picture, if negotiation of a definitive contract action is not possible in sufficient time to meet the government’s requirements, or a government demands that the contractor be given a binding commitment so that contract performance can begin immediately, a UCA clause is added to the contract. According to the United States Defence Department, “Foreign military sales funds in the amount of $220.17 million are being obligated at the time of award.” Meanwhile, a letter by Buhari addressed to Nigeria’s national assembly stated that the Nigerian government transferred $469.4 million to the U.S. government in April. The aircraft which is being built in Jacksonville, Florida, would be equipped with Forward Looking Infrared System (FLIS), a technology that senses radiation and converts it to video. In addition, the Nigerian Air Force would receive ground training devices, mission planning systems, mission debriefs systems, spares, ground support equipment and alternate mission equipment. Nigeria would not have had to wait till 2024 to get the aircraft if former U.S, President Barack Obama did not delay the purchase; an aftermath of the Nigerian Air Force’s bombing of a refugee camp. Hopefully, before the fighter jets are ready for use, Nigeria would have rearranged its priorities and tackled Boko Haram once and for all.