November is almost at a close, and the season is expected to be drier without dark clouds which threaten a city’s inhabitants with rain. With the Christmas season and the new year fast approaching, we are on the tips of our toes waiting for the Harmattan to make an entrance. The effects of the Harmattan season starts early and is usually felt the most in the northern parts of Nigeria, where the North-east Trade Wind from which the season gets its name—blows from the Sahara Desert, over to the Gulf of Guinea. During Harmattan, it is cold, dry and dusty, most of the time, but in southern region of Nigeria, there is still the posibility of rain and the season doesn’t last very long. To be better prepared when it finally arrives, here are a list of things to expect: Impaired Visibility: It is not uncommon for harmattan haze to impair visibility such that airlines might have to cancel flights. There’s little much to prepare you for the long waits and as such, a peek into weather forecasts might help. Also, with the drop in humidity often to as low as 15%, health effects may also include different conditions of the skin, eyes, and respiratory system, including aggravation of asthma. Dry roads and dry shoes: In some places, this might not be a big deal. But the drying up of waterlogged areas and pot holes, reduced stagnant water and mosquitoes, and the appearance of heaps of sand by the edge of bad spots on some roads just adds to the joy that the season brings. Increased nightlife: Hotter days and cooler nights can only mean one thing: Long nights out. After an afternoon of trying to avoid the sun’s glare, you can expect people to be more willing to troop out later for a good time. The fruit of the season: “Udara” as those in the south east would call it, or “Agbalumo”, as those in the south west do, is probably one of the best naturally occurring highlights of this period. This fruit has been known to combine with chapped lips to form an even stickier goo on the lips, but it is loved nonetheless. Fire incidents: In February, 2017, Lagos, Nigeria recorded 40 fire incidents over a weekend. During this period, everything crackles, including your clothes. Be careful not to overdose on the storage of petroleum products, and Christmas lights. Questionable skin solutions: With lips that look like they have been sloshed with groundnut oil or palm oil, some people might leave you wondering. Don’t forget to protect your skin and hair with moisturizing products. And guys, it may have been #NoShave November, but you really don’t want your beard to turn you into dusty Father Christmas (Santa Claus).