Many people want to invest their money to maximize their profits but find it rather difficult either because they lack basic understanding of investing and the economy, or they simply do not know where to start. Economic indicators help investors understand and analyze the economy’s performance and it also tailors predictions of future performance. To properly apply these economic indicators, one has to study various indicators. Gross Domestic Product (GDP) The gross domestic product (GDP) is one of the primary indicators used to gauge the well-being of a country’s economy. GDP is the total value of everything produced by everyone in the country, individuals and companies included, and it is often referred to as the size of the economy. If the GDP of a country is growing or strong, firms hire more workers and can afford to pay higher salaries and wages, invariably leading to more spending. Investors look at the GDP growth rate to decide where the best opportunities are and also to decide if they should adjust their asset allocation. The Consumer Price Index (CPI) The Consumer Price Index is a measure of inflation. It is used to measure changes in the prices paid by consumers for a basket of goods and services, like the change in the price of transportation, food and housing. If the prices of goods and services cost more than they usually do, it is an indicator that there is inflation and the CPI will rise over a period of time. However, if the CPI declines, that means there is deflation or a steady decrease in the prices of goods and services. The CPI market basket is developed from detailed expenditure information provided by people on the prices of goods they bought or services they paid for. Earning reports Earning reports are quarterly or yearly filings made by public companies regarding their companies. In those reports, the companies report their net income, earnings per share, cash flow and debt. It is basically the financial performance of companies and it gives investors a glimpse into the stock-buying opportunity of the company. These companies bare their profits and losses per share in the period of the released reports. When a company beats its previous estimate, it is called an earnings surprise and during these periods the company’s stocks are higher. If it is below estimates, it is said to disappoint and the prices of the stock are usually lower. Unemployment figures The unemployment figures are determined by the percentage of unemployed people in the labour force in a country. Unemployed workers tend to lose their purchasing power with time and their constant dependence can create a strain on other workers which in turn might cause a ripple effect in the economy. Taking into consideration the employment figures, an investor can make informed decisions about investing. Price of crude oil Crude is a huge determinant in an economy as oil forms one of the pillars of the global economy. An increase in the cost of crude, especially in crude dependent economies, can affect the prices of goods and services and these affect consumer confidence as well as investor confidence. Should oil prices increase, the input cost for businesses would increase and the profit margins invariably reduce. Consumer leverage ratio This is the ratio of total household debt and is used to quantify the amount of debt the average consumer has. It looks at how much capital comes by means of debt or loans. A rapid growth in consumer leverage affects corporate earnings growth and through it, an investor can assess the flexibility of a firm to meet its financial obligation aiding the investor to make informed investment decisions. Bankruptcies Leveraging on bankrupt companies can be profitable for investors. Investors can buy into weak firms. Known as distressed debt investing, an investor consciously buys the debt of a troubled company—often at a discount— seeking to profit if the company turns around. Broadband Internet Penetration Depending on the sector an investor is contemplating investing in, broadband penetration should be taken into consideration. Most businesses are going online because of the opportunity the internet provides and depending on internet penetration, an investor can determine if the environment is conducive and would yield healthy returns. Stock market prices Stock market prices is a strong economic indicator and has a profound impact on investment. Investing in the stock market allows investors to diversify from other investments like real estate or bonds. For an investor to invest in the stocks of a company, the company must be listed on the stock exchange. Stock prices change every day thanks to fluctuating supply and demand and investors have to monitor daily to understand a company’s outlook and prospective future. Money supply changes The changes in the money supply have a negative or positive effect on the economy and these can affect investments. An increase in the supply of money lowers interest rates and generates more investment. When there is more money supply, businesses order more products and there is also enough to go to consumers. In contrast, a decrease in the money supply would cause an increase in the average interest rate and the higher demand for credit also pushes the interest rates.