Digital payment platform, Remita, which is the only approved gateway to the Nigerian Government Treasury Single Account announced on Tuesday that with effect from 1 November, Nigerians will pay for any transaction made into the TSA. This announcement came after a one-day stakeholder sensitisation exercise on TSA e-Collection charges organised by the Office of the Accountant General of the Federation (AGF) that took place in Abuja. “The Federal Government of Nigeria has directed an immediate implementation of the global pricing model for e-payments, thus transferring payments for the services to the payer,” Remita said in a statement. This means that the payer will now bear the cost of using the platform and other charges on the transaction as opposed to the government which was previously bearing the cost. These charges will also include service fees. At the one day event, all players which include all the commercial banks, SystemSpecs and the Central Bank of Nigeria (CBN), agreed that a fee of one percent of funds collected is payable to SystemSpecs which owns Remita System Specs and the participating deposit money banks will be happy about this decision because the Federal Government owed them up to two years in service charges. On the other hand, consumers are not happy about this decision as some of them have seen this as a way of making the companies involved richer through what is termed as indiscriminate charges. Now, this means indiscriminate charges will apply. This morning I just did a transaction of 500 and I had to pay 661.44k. At the end of payment I got a receipt of 503 naira. If thus isn’t a plot to rip people of, what wise can it be! pic.twitter.com/SKes1Regg3 — Ayo David (@ayodavid9) November 2, 2018  It would be recalled that the pilot TSA scheme commenced in 2012 using a unified structure of accounting for 217 Ministries Departments and Agencies in Nigeria in order to enhance accountability and transparency in the management of public funds the pilot TSA scheme. In 2015 a presidential order was given to fully implement the initiative covering over 1000 Ministries, Departments, and Agencies.