Two years after being called upon, along with three other notable writers, during Michelle Obama’s tenure as the first lady of the United States to offer their thanks on behalf of the world for her outstanding years of service, Chimamanda Ngozi Adichie, is set to moderate the former first lady’s book event for her highly anticipated, wise, and revelatory memoir, Becoming. According to the Amazon blurb, Becoming is “a work of deep reflection and mesmerizing storytelling.” In the book, Mrs. Obama “invites readers into her world, chronicling the experiences that have shaped her—from her childhood on the South Side of Chicago to her years as an executive balancing the demands of motherhood and work, to her time spent at the world’s most famous address.” As the moderator, Adichie, bestselling author of the novels Purple Hibiscus, which won the Commonwealth Writers’ Prize; Half of a Yellow Sun, which won the Orange Prize; and Americanah, which was named one of the ten best books of 2013 by The New York Times, will sit in conversation with Michelle Obama, asking questions regarding her memoir and opening up the floor later to invite the audience into her world as she speaks, with her usual unerring honesty and lively wit, on the experiences that have shaped her from her childhood, her triumphs, disappointments. In her memoir, Mrs Obama also shares life lessons learned and inspires people to become the very best version of themselves. Adichie has been selected among a few other wonderful women, such as Oprah Winfrey, Tracee Ellis Ross and fellow author, Phoebe Robinson. It is an incredible honour for both Adichie and Mrs Obama, and we get to see two powerful women and important figures in the advocacy for girls and better boys, engage in conversation that promises to be beautiful, insightful, candid and bursting with wisdom. The event which is hosted by Penguin Live in collaboration with Southbank Centre, has been scheduled to hold on 3 December at Southbank Centre’s Royal Festival Hall  in London. Tickets go on sale 8 November at £30 – £125 (+£3 booking fee). Becoming is published by Crown Publishing Group and comes out on 13 November. 