American Multinational Conglomerate, General Electric (GE) has ditched the Nigerian railway concession and handed over its leadership of the consortium to South African rail, port and pipeline company Transnet SOC Ltd. “GE will be transitioning leadership of the International Consortium, selected to execute the Nigerian narrow-gauge railway concession, to Transnet,” GE said in a statement. Transnet was chosen to lead the consortium to execute on the rail concession project instead of the other members which include Dutch-based APM Terminals and China’s Sinohydro Consortium. This is because Transnet has been a trusted partner of GE for several decades and the company has confidence in its ability. The railway concession project was worth around $2 billion for two lines connecting cities in the northern part of the country to others in the southern part. It was meant to cover about 3,500 km (2,200 miles) of existing narrow-gauge lines from Lagos in the South to Kano in the north. It is also expected to extend from Port Harcourt in the South-South to Maiduguri, in the North-east. Why is GE backing out of this deal? According to Reuters, a statement released by GE said that this development is in line with GE’s decision to exit the Transportation business from its portfolio. However, GE has been experiencing a bumpy ride with its cash flow as credit markets rated them low due to the struggles in the company’s power unit. In October this year, S&P Global Ratings downgraded the company to BBB+ from A which is just three steps above junk. By November, Moody’s Investors Service and Fitch Ratings also downgraded the company and this led to a fall in of the company’s bonds that pushed several through all-time lows. Bloomberg reported that in September,  the company disclosed that a key customer temporarily shut down two U.S. power plants due to an oxidation issue with its flagship turbine model. This turbine division is set to be a central component of GE, alongside aviation and renewable energy. The company is also likely to shed businesses such as health care and transportation. While contending with a power-market slump, flagging cash flow, a deteriorating insurance portfolio and investigations by the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission GE has lost more than $100 billion. The New chief executive of GE Larry Culp also triggered selling off assets in order to cut costs, but this backfired and led to a fall in the value of GE’s shares by 10 percent by 12 Nov. Although by 13 November, the latest falls of the company’s debt and equity were reversed as the CEO plans to reduce its stake in its subsidiary Baker Hughes. What the Nigerian Government is saying about the deal According to Nigeria’s minister of transportation Rotimi Amaechi who spoke in an interview on Thursday on the Morning Show of Arise News Network, GE did not abandon the railway deal due to Nigeria’s economy but rather the company did so because it was no longer in the business of transportation and had to hand over its interest in the deal to another firm. The minister also said that prior to GE’s exit the Nigerian government had not signed any concession agreement with it or any of the firms involved but was still negotiating with them. “Now, the South African company has continued, they want to do the rehabilitation, we are at the point of setting up the SPV before we can sign the concession agreement. We can’t sign without that because there are four companies involved. “The four companies will form an SPV with which they will come to the table to sign. Each company, especially the one in China, say they will need six months to be able to convince their government to go into the concession. We are good to go, we are waiting for our partners,” Rotimi Amaechi said.