South Africa is one of the 195 signatories to the Paris Agreement which aims to keep the increase in global average temperature to well below 2°C above pre-industrial levels; and to limit the increase to 1.5°C, since this would substantially reduce the risks and effects of climate change which is currently being felt across the world. In a bid to adequately play its role in the world as part of the global effort to reduce greenhouse gas emissions, South Africa is ready to impose carbon tax in the country, following an eight-year process of preparation and consultation with stakeholders. “Climate change poses the greatest threat facing humankind,” stated Tito Mboweni, the country’s finance minister on Tuesday when he tabled the Carbon Tax Bill in Parliament. According to a statement by the National Treasury, the Carbon Tax Bill and related measures will enable South Africa to meet its targets as contained in the Paris Agreement. The Bill, which has been revised after comments during the Parliamentary hearings by the Standing Committee of Finance earlier this year, was adopted by Cabinet in August 2017, which saw it as an integral part of the system for implementing government policy on climate change. “The Carbon Tax Bill gives effect to the polluter pays principle and aims to price greenhouse gas emissions by obliging the polluter to internalise the external costs of emitting carbon, and contribute towards addressing the harm caused by such pollution,” National Treasury said, adding that the carbon tax will become effective from 1 June 2019. “This includes a basic tax-free allowance of 60 percent for all activities, a 10 percent process and fugitive emissions allowance, a maximum 10 percent allowance for companies that use carbon offsets to reduce their tax liability, a performance allowance of up to 5 percent for companies that reduce the emissions intensity of their activities, and a maximum 10 percent allowance for trade exposed sectors. This will result in a relatively modest carbon tax rate ranging from R6 to R48 per ton of CO2 equivalent emitted,” Treasury said. Usually, it translates it into a tax on electricity, natural gas or oil. With such tax, using dirty fuels become more expensive, thereby encouraging utilities, businesses and individuals to reduce consumption and increase energy efficiency. However, to reduce its immediate impact on businesses, the tax will be implemented in phases, with a number of tax-free allowances applying during the first phase. According to the National Treasury, the impact of the tax will be reviewed after at least three years of implementation, taking into account the progress made to reduce GHG emissions. Carbon tax offers both social and economic benefits as it increases revenue without significantly altering the economy, yet promotes the objective of reducing GHG emissions. Carbon tax can effectively reduce the harmful and unfavorable levels of carbon dioxide emissions in the society, thereby reducing climate change and its deleterious effects on the environment. Zimababwe has implemented the carbon tax, which according to the Zimbabwe Revenue Authority, is payable in foreign currency at the rate of $0.03 per litre of petroleum and diesel products or 5 percent of cost, insurance and freight value (as defined in the Customs and Excise Act [Chapter 23:02]), whichever is greater. In a paper titled Carbon Pricing Revenues Could Close Infrastructure Access Gaps, by Michael Jakob et. al, they argued that carbon pricing revenues would cover infrastructure investment needs in most countries. While an introduction of carbon tax might mean a rise in prices as manufacturers pass on the cost of
compliance to customers, such impact can be mitigated by ensuring funds raised from carbon tax is reinvested into the paying areas.