The Johannesburg Stock Exchange (JSE) has fined Pepkor Holdings, formerly known as Steinhoff Africa Retail (STAR), R5 million ($362,000) for breaching its listing requirements. The JSE noted that the South Africa-headquartered investment and holding company breached listing requirements when it chose not to disclose certain financial information in its pre-listing statement and its 2017 annual financial statements. The investment company stood surety for Steinhoff International’s debt, guaranteed a R15 billion domestic medium-term note programme, and also provide loans to senior management. These loans amounted to R9 million ($653 thousand) as of 30 September 2017 and R18 million ($1.3 million) in aggregate as of September 30, 2016. “The company, through its subsidiaries, was party to a guarantee of third-party debt related to Business Ventures Investments (BVI) and exposure thereto equated to R440 million as at 31 March 2018,” the JSE’s statement said. Pepkor’s subsidiaries include retailers Pep and Ackermans. The fine has already begun weighing in on Pepkor, as its net profit reflected a 19 percent decline despite recording an 11 percent growth sales in its 2018 financial year results released today, 26 November 2018. According to Pepkor Chief Executive, Leon Lourens, “Significant shareholder funding was introduced in the group’s capital structure upon listing. This resulted in an increase in net finance costs from R620m in the 2017 financial year to R1.2bn in the current year.” Pepkor, in a statement, said it “acknowledged that inadequate disclosures were made during the process of its listing and the publication of its annual financial statements in 2017″ and its board and management have engaged in a proactive and transparent manner with the JSE on the matter and welcomes the conclusion of the investigation.” In a statement on Monday, JSE said Pepkor has fully cooperated during its investigation and provided “the JSE with sufficient assurance that steps have been taken to address these breaches”. “Notwithstanding this fact, the JSE has decided to impose this public censure against the company with a fine in the amount of R5m of which R1m is suspended for a period of two years.”