Bio-bricks made using human urine, loose sand, and bacteria may be the next environmentally friendly substitute for kiln-fired bricks, according to researchers at the University of Cape Town (UCT). The team—civil engineering master’s student Suzanne Lambert and civil engineering honors student Vukheta Mukhari—worked with UCT senior lecturer in water quality engineering Dr. Dyllon Randall to experiment with various mold shapes and tensile, or binding, strengths to create an innovative building material which also offers a paradigm shift in waste recovery. The finalized bricks are created through an organic process called microbial carbonate precipitation, the same process that creates the hard elements of coral. During microbial carbonate precipitation. loose sand is colonised with bacteria that produce urease. An enzyme, the urease breaks down the urea in urine while producing calcium carbonate through a complex chemical reaction. This cements the sand into any shape at room temperature, taking six to eight days to form. Conventional bricks or clay-fired bricks are manufactured in kilns, where they are dried at 1,400 degrees Celsius, a process that causes large emissions of carbon dioxide. The concept of using urea to grow bricks was tested in the United States some years back using synthetic solutions by company called BioMASON but Lambert’s brick uses real human urine for the first time, with significant consequences for waste recycling ­and upcycling. “We typically need between 20 and 30 litres of urine to make one bio-brick. This might sound like a lot, but remember that urine is more than 98% water: for the bio-brick making process we are only after carbonate ions and calcium ions which only accounts for about 1% (by mass) of the total urine.” Randall says in an interview with The Conversation Africa. The strength of the bio-bricks would also depend on client needs by allowing the bacteria to make the solid stronger by ‘growing’ it for longer. “The longer you allow the little bacteria to make the cement,” says Randall, “the stronger the product is going to be. We can optimise that process.” In addition, the bio-brick process produces as by-products nitrogen and potassium, which are important components of commercial fertilisers. The entire process would theoretically produce no “waste”. The urine was collected in novel fertiliser-producing urinals from men working in the New Engineering Building at the University of Cape Town. The team plans to collect urine from women, too, with hopes that someday, when nature calls, instead of being flushed away, urine could be a key ingredient in the construction of a greener office or new home. The researchers say the bio-bricks lose their ammonia smell after drying at room temperature for a day or two and are safe to use and handle thereafter, but there are also logistics to be considered; urine collection and transport to a resource recovery. “BioMASON has shown that this natural process is commercially viable, albeit not with urine,” Randall says in the interview. “Back in 2016 they were in the process of upgrading their facilities to grow 2500 bricks per day. We need to work on the integration of the urine collection to the large-scale bio-brick making process though. I’m confident we will be able to do this in the near future.”