Forty-five deals worth $32 billion in investment were signed at the inaugural African Investment Forum (AIF) whcih held in South Africa from November 7 – 9. The deals cover sectors such as energy, infrastructure, transport, utilities, education, health, water, sanitation, agriculture and housing. Akinwumi Adesina president of the African Development Bank (AfDB) which championed the AIF, said on Friday that the investments are a significant 80 percent of the target set out at the start of the summit. The Bank had indicated at the beginning of the summit that there would be about 28 boardroom sessions structured to deliberate on 61 bankable projects worth $40 billion across the continent. The three-day AIF was attended by several African leaders, senior government officials and investors from across the continent with the intention of brokering intra-Africa deals and investment opportunities. Despite the impressive agreements, Adesina said an equally important achievement of the forum was the positive narrative that had emerged about the continent over the course of the three days. “The most important thing for Africa is how it is projected, the image that Africa is giving, the news that comes out of Africa and how the worlds sees Africa. That’s important because perception matters.” The forum, Adesina said, has sent a bold statement to the rest of the world that Africa is ready for investment, Africa absorbs investments and that leading African financial institutions are putting their full financial weight behind the continent. Adesina called for the reduction of what he termed the significant risk of financing programmes in Africa. “What we have seen here is the power of financial institutions behind Africa’s own vision”. Of the $32 billion total investments at the Forum, $6.8 billion are in South African projects, Premier of Gauteng, where the event held, David Makhura said. The deals include the Gautrain expansion project worth $3.9 billion; $240 million in investment for a public-private partnership towards the building of schools, as well as an investment of $492 million towards the renovation of government buildings. “There was a stampede of investors wanting to finance the Gautrain. We want to increase the level of investment in the Gauteng and South African economy. Intra-Africa investment is very critical for the advancement of the African continent,” Makhura said. He added that these new investments will contribute immensely towards the $100 billion investment target set out by President Cyril Ramaphosa for the next five years. The President has already managed to raise about $20.3 billion from last month’s investment summit.