Over the years, West African economies have recorded impressive growth some of the highest on the continent. Much of the upward mobility of these economies has been fueled by key factors like freedom of movement across the region and cross-border trade. The impact has been significant, with economies like Cote d’Ivoire and Senegal predicted to grow at seven percent and others like Ghana at nine percent. In West Africa, there are a number of sectors that are driving growth, economic diversification and job creation. One of them is the cotton sector, the commodity referred to as ‘white gold’. In some countries, the cotton industry has already been booming and it is significant to note that out of the 12 leading African cotton-producing countries, eight are in West Africa. In November 2017, the top four cotton-producing countries in the region, also known as the ‘Cotton Four’ or ‘C4’ countries (Benin, Burkina Faso, Chad and Mali), urged the World Trade Organization (WTO) to increase assistance to enhance cotton production. The C4 specifically requested support to increase local processing capacity and to develop cotton-to-textile value chains across the region. This had led to a rise in interest from international stakeholders such as the International Islamic Trade Finance Corporation (ITFC), amongst others to develop key interventions that improve cotton productivity and add value to cotton production through capacity building, skills development knowledge transfer, and trade collaborations. For a decade, ITFC, in particular, has been making significant interventions to support cotton processing and manufacturing in these markets by funding the supply of necessary agricultural inputs and by purchasing the seed cotton (or “raw cotton”) directly from farmers and cooperatives to be processed into fiber before export. In doing so, cotton farmers are able to see quicker turnaround of profits.  Till date, ITFC has approved 21 financing operations worth $1.4 billion in West Africa’s cotton sector. It has also introduced programs to develop direct trade linkages between cotton exporting countries, in particular between West African cotton-producing countries and South-Eastern cotton importing countries. In recognition that the cotton value chain offers tremendous opportunities for the emergence of a young and innovative SME sector, ITFC recently initiated the West Africa SME Development Program aimed at ensuring better access to financing. The program, which will focus on West African Economic and Monetary Union (WAEMU) nations, namely Benin, Burkina Faso, Cote d’Ivoire, Guinea-Bissau, Mali, Niger, Senegal and Togo will be complemented by capacity building and training for selected SMEs and partner banks to enhance the bankability of their projects. The implications for SMEs in the cotton sector and its value chain, in particular, are expected to be huge, largely owing to the growing sophistication of the cotton ecosystem in West Africa. Investment in sectors like cotton trade is critical for the economic development of West African economies. It is a huge industry with growing exports and as such, represents tremendous opportunities within the cotton value chain for SME growth, job creation, a source of foreign currencies and a sustainable export-led economy in the region. While the sector continues to face challenges at the level of institutional and policy reforms, a number of the C4 countries, in particular, Benin, Burkina-Faso and Mali, have made real progress and represent the future of cotton production on the continent.