It is interesting that for a country like Nigeria, which ranks in the first quarter of the world’s import ranking and which imports all sorts of products from refined petroleum, to oats, medications, electrical appliances and cars, many know so little about the maritime industry, which permeates almost every element of our lives. Nigeria is also heavily dependent on its oil industry and although many seem to be knowledgeable about oil and gas—to some extent—the maritime industry that boosts this industry is largely invisible. In fact, few people make the connection of the indispensable nature of the maritime industry to the oil and gas industry. This lack of insight into the central and strategic importance of the maritime industry is termed ‘sea blindness’. The aim of this article and successive pieces on this column is to bring the maritime industry out of its shadows, and give it the recognition and interest it deserves. So the following are a few reasons I believe the maritime industry is exciting, important and deserving of your attention: Fishing provides direct incomes for over 10 million people in Africa – half of whom are women and contributes to the food supply of over 200 million people and contributes millions to nation’s GDPs.However a major problems facing Africa’s fishing industry, depriving nations of much needed revenue, threatening food security, and impacting negatively on the ecology of its oceans is the problem of Illegal, Unreported and Unregulated fishing (IUU). This practices include overfishing by foreign vessels granted licenses to fish or fishing by unlicensed boats or fishing of species which they are not licensed to fish. The major incentive for IUU is that affected African countries usually lack the resources to monitor and enforce compliance with its regulations. According to a recent study by Frontiers in Marine Science, the West African region loses about US$2.3 billion annually to illegal fishing. The staggering impact of this loss to the African economy is enough reason to encourage awareness of the industry and encourage increased government action in tackling all threats to its nation’s economy and maritime security.< style="font-size: 18px;"> Several attempts have been made on the international legal plain to engender reduction of these emissions. These include the 1997 Kyoto Protocol, the 2015 Paris Agreement etc. However compliance has been relatively sketchy with some nations pushing fervently for enforcement (mainly island nations adversely affected by global warming and rising water levels) and other nations dragging feet over compliance (traditional shipping nations or nations with large shipping industries). However, as noted by The Economist, the major problem is allocating emissions to countries i.e. which country bears more responsibility for carbon emissions. Although it is possible to point fingers to huge shipping nations, in an increasingly globalised world, it is not so clear cut; to whom should you designate emissions for shipping Chinese goods, made with South Korean components, across the Pacific to American consumers? Initiatives are being taken by several shipping companies to produce energy efficient vessels. An example of this is Norway’s all-electric ferry, operational since 2015, that has cut emissions by a striking 95% compared to fuel counterparts. However, although such electric battery powered vessels are excellent innovations for shallow waters and shot haul fleets, they are not viable solutions for deep sea going vessels. These deep sea going vessels still need to find alternative means of energy or zero emission fuels in order to contribute to cleaner oceans and seas. The maritime industry was termed by an author as the invisible industry that brings you everything. The ubiquity of its impact in our lives and activities are so far reaching and yet knowledge of this industry is limited. Another author posited that the reason for sea blindness is that because the sea is so far removed from us with modernisation and urban living, it is a situation of out of sight, out of mind. The aim of this article is to bring the maritime industry into our sights and consciousness.