One of the world’s leading insurers, Allianz Group recently announced the signing of an $81 million agreement to acquire an 8 percent stake in Africa’s leading reinsurer Africa Re. This transaction makes Allianz Group one of the largest shareholders in Africa Re. “Having identified Africa as one of the future growth markets, we continue to invest step-by-step in the continent. This investment in Africa Re is a major milestone for Allianz’s long-term growth strategy in Africa,” Niran Peiris, Member of the Board of Management of Allianz SE, responsible for Global Insurance Lines & Anglo Markets, Reinsurance, Middle East, Africa, said of the transaction. Africa Re brings its 42 years operational experience on the continent on board t, has in-depth business knowledge of the African markets and an expansive network across both regions and linguistic communities, allowing it unmatched proximity to its clients. Through cooperation and innovation in various areas, Allianz and Africa Re aim to jointly support insurance penetration in Africa and the economic development of the continent. This partnership is a strategically complementary one for both companies, as well as being beneficial to their clients. It will also see them take advantage of Africa Re’s 42 years operational experience on the continent. Africa Re has in-depth business knowledge of the African markets and an expansive network across both regions and linguistic communities, allowing it unmatched proximity to its clients. According to Corneille Karekezi, Africa Re’s Group Managing Director and Chief Executive Officer, this partnership with Allianz Group, is a reliable and strong partner with a global network, particularly in agriculture and the emerging field of cyber insurance which will definitely strengthen Africa Re’s capacity to offer its clients services of higher quality. This acquisition also comes six months after Allianz acquired 98 percent stake in Nigerian insurer, Ensure Insurance Plc. What you should know about Allianz Group What you didn’t know about Africa Re 