Mexico has been chosen to host the 2018 World Amputee Football Federation (WAFF) World Cup. The tournament which is scheduled to take place between 24 October and 5 November, 2018, will gather the national teams from 24 countries to compete for the trophy last won by Russia in 2014. Amputee football is a disabled sport involving seven footballers: six outfield players and one goalkeeper. Outfielders have lower extremity amputation, while goalkeepers have upper extremity amputation. (NAN) Ghana is one of the 24 nations to take part in this year’s world cup scheduled to take place in Guadalajara, Mexico. In a statement issued by the General Secretary of the Association, Theodore Mawuli Viwotor, in Accra, the Ghana Amputee Football Association disclosed that, “we have received an official invitation from the host nation and WAFF, to be part of the 24 nations competing for the coveted cup and we are ready to participate in the Mundial.” With its record as the nation with the highest number of professionals in amputee football, connoisseurs of the game tip Ghana to make significant impact at the event. Ghana’s national team, the Black Challenge, holds the record as the first African Champions and the first nation in the world to transfer players professionally. Nigeria’s national team, the Special Eagles, is also set to make its debut at the Amputee world cup, while Angola has won the bid to host the 5th biennial Cup of African Nations for Amputee Football (CANAF) in 2019 after a six-year hiatus. The last CANAF took place in Kenya in 2013 but was fraught with some problems, leading to the suspension of the Amputee Football Federation Africa (AFFA) from the World Amputee Football Federation. Isah Suleiman, the President of Nigeria Amputee Football Federation (NAFF), described Nigeria’s invitation to WAFF 2018 organised World Cup as a milestone achievement adding that the participation in the World Cup would serve as an exposure to the footballers and opportunity to boost the nation’s profile at the global level. The competition will take place in four cities across the State of Jalisco – Guadalajara, San Juan, Logos de Moreno and Chapala. The World Cup mascot and other tournament details will be unveiled later by the local organising committee.