The South African Music Awards (often simply called the SAMAs) are the Recording Industry of South Africa’s music industry awards, established in 1995. Organised in partnership with the North West Department of Culture, Arts and Traditional Affairs, the SAMAs are considered the South African equivalent of the American Grammy Awards. On Friday, the 24th edition of the SAMAs which held in Sun City, North West, kicked off the first leg of the weekend’s awards featuring winners of the industry/technical awards. The ceremony was hosted by Mpho Popps and was streamed live on the SAMAs Facebook page. The second night of the SAMAs took place on Saturday, 2 June and featured interesting performances, glamorous celebrities, Arts and Culture Minister Nathi Mthetwa, and the President Cyril Ramaphosa. The President, who was a special guest at the event and whose presence elicited mixed responses, first went up the stage to welcome and open the show. He later went up again to present the Lifetime Achievement Awards to three recipients; Spokes H, Steve Kekana, and Mbongeni Ngema. He also presented Shashika Mooruth with International Achiever Award. Both nights of the SAMAs, dedicated to “reliving and commemorating the importance of music in the history of the country”, were screened live on SABC 1. It was a good night for popular singer Shekhinah who swept the boards bagging the Newcomer of the Year, Album of the Year and Female Artist of the Year awards for the sterling work on her debut album Rose Gold. She was followed by Joyous Celebration. The group’s Joyous Celebration Volume 21 Heal Our Land won the Best Selling Digital Artist Award, in addition to awards for Best Selling DVD and Best Selling Album. Akanamali by Sun-El Musician featuring Samthing Soweto was honoured with Sampra Highest Airplay of the Year, Samro Highest Airplay of the Year Composer’s Award, and Best Collaboration Award. Veteran Afropop band Mafikizolo proved their staying power when they took Duo/Group of the Year and Best Afropop Album. Adding to their Best Engineered Album (by Howard Gomba and Themba Sekowe) win from Friday, Mafikizolo leads the list with three awards alongside Joyous Celebration, Shekhinah and Sun-El Musician/Samthing Soweto. The event also saw House DJ Prince Kaybee take home Male Artist of the Year for his hits laden album I Am Music, Tresor’s The Beautiful Madness earning him the Best Pop Album, rapper Shane Eagle taking the Best Hip Hop Album Award and Lady Zamar winning Best Dance Music Award. In the Best Kwaito Album category, Busiswa beat the competition for her album Highly Flavoured. Jo Black’s Skepe emerged victorious in the Best Kontemporere Musiek Album category and Fokofpolisiekar’s Selfmedikasie was announced the Best Rock Album. Omunye by Destruction Boyz has been the rage this the past year. The gqom music stars won the biggest award—Record of the Year—and closed the ceremony with an electric performance. The glittering high octave celebrity event hosted by TV and radio stars Somizi Mhlongo and Dineo Ranaka; and comedian Mpho Popps also featured performances by Distruction Boyz, Lady Zamar, Shwi noMtekhala, Shekhinah, Die Heuwels Fantasties, Bongeziwe Mabandla and Riky Rick. As the show came to an end, RiSA CEO, Nhlanhla Sibisi commented, “Tonight has been a remarkable night of celebrating the best our country has to offer. We salute all the winners and the nominees and we thank the public for their undying support for local music. We applaud everyone who made SAMA24 such a successful project.” “Congratulations to all the winners,” said Mme O.R Mochware, MEC for Culture, Arts and Traditional Affairs in North West. “The winners were all worthy of their medals in such a competitive and prestigious event. We are proud to be associated with the SAMAs.”