Every year, the Global Peace Index (GPI) measures countries by their level of societal safety and security, the extent of ongoing domestic and international conflict, and the degree of militarisation. Peace, like beauty, cannot be measured because it is relative. There is, however, a generally accepted concept of peace that the GPI reflects. Produced by the Institute for Economics and Peace (IEP), the GPI is the world’s leading measure of global peacefulness, and this year’s GPI shows that the world is less peaceful today than it was 10 years ago. This 12th edition ranks 163 independent states and territories according to their level of peacefulness. The report show that the global level of peace deteriorated by 0.27 in 2017, making it the fourth successive year of deterioration as 92 countries deteriorated, while 71 countries improved. In 2017 on the global economy, the economic impact of violence was $14.76 trillion in purchasing power parity (PPP) terms, a figure equivalent to 12.4 percent of the world’s economic activity (gross world product) or $1,988 for every person. According to the report, since 2008, the average level of global peacefulness has deteriorated by 2.38 percent. The gap between the least and most peaceful countries have widened in a decade. Over that period, 85 countries deteriorated, while 75 improved. The 25 least peaceful countries declined on average by 12.7 percent, while the 25 most peaceful countries improved by 0.9 percent. The 2018 GPI reveals a world in which the tensions, conflicts, and crises have remained unresolved, resulting in an average fall of peacefulness. South Africa led the African continent with the largest economic impact of violence and conflicts due to increases in internal security spending. In Sub-Saharan Africa, Mauritius topped the list ranking 20th, next on the 29th position is Botswana followed by Ghana, Namibia and Malawi. In the last 5 African countries, Nigeria is sixth from the rear in Sub-Saharan Africa at the 148 position, followed by Central African Republic ranking 155. Next in line is Democratic Republic of Congo, Libya, Somalia and South Sudan.