Nigeria’s national women’s football team, the Super Falcons, perennial winners, have qualified for the 2018 African Women’s Cup of Nations (AWCON). And this is while it seems the Super Eagles have all the glory being official winners of the Fashion 2018 World Cup and rated the ‘team with the best travelling uniform’ by BBC after their arrival in Russia resplendent in green and white ensembles complete with hats and shoes, and getting a customised locker room. The women’s team sealed their qualification after an emphatic victory over Gambia in s second leg clash at the Agege Stadium in Lagos on 11 June. The Super Falcons qualified on a 7-0 aggregate by beating The Gambia 1-0 in their home, and 6-0 in Lagos. The quartet from the Falcons’ goal machine, Desire Oparanozie, and a brace from African Women Footballer of the Year, Asisat Oshoala, gave the Falcons the much-needed victory. FT: Nigeria 6-0 Gambia (7-0 agg) Reiging champions Super Falcons have qualified for the 2018 African Women's Cup of Nations which will be held in Ghana in November which will serve as the chase 3 African teams to the 2019 @FIFAWWC #SoarSuperFalcons  #AWCON2018Q pic.twitter.com/J4mh39sxmS — NGSuper_Falcons (@NGSuper_Falcons) June 11, 2018  In addition to Nigeria, the 2018 AWCON will feature Cameroon, Equatorial Guinea, Algeria, South Africa, Zambia, Mali and the host, Ghana. Based on past records, South Africa and Cameroon are Nigeria’s biggest opponents. Since the inception of the Africa Women Cup of Nations (AWCON) in 1991, Nigeria has won the tournament 10 times. Now, the country is getting another shot at the continental trophy, having qualified for the 2018 edition set to hold in Ghana from 17 November to 1 December. The Coach, Thomas Dernneby, said the victory was important to the team, adding that the team’s rebuilding process would be of his paramount interest. “This is a victory we cannot wish away, it is important to me and the team and also part of the rebuilding process of the team,” he said. “Beyond the qualification, we also want to be at our best going to the World Cup.” The tournament also doubles as the African qualifiers to the 2019 FIFA Women’s World Cup. The top three teams will qualify for the World Cup in France.