Lauryn Hill has just announced new dates for the North American leg of her ongoing The Miseducation of Lauryn Hill World Tour 2018, adding noteworthy musical guests to the lineup of the 20th anniversary of her seminal album. The tour will feature appearances from artists such as Ghana’s Mr Eazi, who will join the legendary singer during her September 22 show in Phoenix, Arizona. Nigerian artists Shabazz Palaces and Patoranking will also open for the singer for a number of shows later on in the tour. Other special guests include Bambaata Marley, M.I.A., Dave Chappelle, Santigold, A$AP Rocky, SZA, Busta Rhymes, NAS, Dave East, Jo Mersa Marley, Talib Kweli, Tierra Whack, Protoje, Kelela, Victory, Raury, Iman Omari. Multi-platinum artist Ms. Lauryn Hill rose to prominence with The Fugees and took the world by storm two decades ago as a solo artist with The Miseducation of Ms. Lauryn Hill. Singles including “Doo Wop (That Thing)” and “Everything Is Everything” catapulted her to stardom, ultimately lauding her with ten GRAMMY nominations and five GRAMMY Award wins. The UK dates follow a run of shows in the US, which begins on 5 July in Virginia Beach and wraps on October 5 in St. Louis, Missouri. Announcing the tour, Hill said: “This album chronicled an intimate piece of my young existence. It was the summation of most, if not all, of my most hopeful and positive emotions experienced to that date. I Loved and believed deeply in my community’s ability to both Love and heal itself provided it received the right amount of support and encouragement. Our world today, both complex and changing, is in need of the balance between moral fortitude and cathartic expression. I hope the Love and energy that permeated this work can continue to inspire change with Love and optimism at the helm.” A portion of the ticket sales go towards the MLH Foundation, which directly contributes support for education, health, agriculture, technology, and community based businesses and development initiatives throughout the Diaspora.