US star actor Anthony Mackie, who plays Marvel superhero The Falcon, has been added to the upcoming Comic Con Africa festival’s line-up, Reed Exhibitions Africa, ReedPOP and VS Gaming announced. News of Mackie being added to the Comic Con line-up comes just a few weeks after organisers announced that Aquaman star Jason Momoa would no longer be attending the festival due to filming commitments. Comic Con Africa models the international versions of the exposition which showcases comic books, science fiction and fantasy related films, television series, a large range of pop culture and entertainment elements in animation, toys, gadgets, clothing, anime, manga, collectible card games, video games, webcomics, and fantasy novels. Mackie’s roles throughout the Marvel Cinematic Universe (MCU) as ‘The Falcon’ has solidified his presence as an unmistakable force in Marvel’s cinematic repertoire. Mackie, as you’ll know if you’re well versed in the MCU, plays Sam Wilson—also known as Falcon—in the Captain America, Avengers, and Ant-Man films. He was last seen towards the end of Avengers: Infinity War. Flying in fresh from The Avengers: Infinity War ANTHONY MACKIE (The Falcon) will be at #ComicConAfrica on Saturday AND Sunday!!! pic.twitter.com/QDsoh3LWDu — Comic Con Africa (@ComicConAfrica) August 23, 2018  Although he’s well-known for portraying Marvel’s Falcon, Mackie is an accomplished actor who has starred in Oscar-winning films like The Hurt Locker (2008) and Million Dollar Baby (2004), as well as critically acclaimed movies like The Adjustment Bureau (2011), 8 Mile (2002), and Half Nelson (2006). He has also recently appeared opposite Jennifer Connolly in Shelter (2014) as well as the Emmy nominated All The Way (2016). Mackie will also be starting in the second season of Netflix’s sci-fi series Altered Carbon, as well as The Hate U Give. The Avenger is joining the star-studded line-up that includes the likes of Travis Fimmel from Vikings, The Big Bang Theory’s Kevin Sussmen, America Gods’  Yetide Badaki and Ricky Whittle, as well as The Magicians’ Rick Worthy. Actors are not the only celebrities who will be in attendance, with the likes of popular comic book artists Jenny Frison and Chris Sprouse confirmed for the expo, along with acclaimed comic writer Andy Diggle. Taking place at the Kyalami Grand Prix Circuit and International Convention Centre (KGPCICC), the first ever Comic Con Africa will hold on the weekend of the 14 – 16 September 2018.