The African market, having largely been ignored or presented with lackluster efforts by many international services, is now developing rapidly in terms of technology. Unlike in many Western nations, Africa is not heavily saturated with competition. US-based music streaming platform, Tidal, has joined what is now the obvious trend since Africa became the focal point for the music industry, widening its reach in Africa through a partnership with MTN Uganda. The partnership, launched on 22 August, gives MTN’s 10.5 million Ugandan subscribers access to Tidal as part of their mobile plans, with streaming data included in the deal. “Africa is a continent that has long been an inspiration for music heard around the world and Tidal is excited to highlight the vibrant musicians on our platform,” Tidal’s chief operating officer, Lior Tibon, said. “Tidal is also thrilled to bring a new wave of digital music to Uganda as part of this collaboration.” Tidal, which is co-owned by American rapper Jay-Z, launched in the United States more than 3 years ago, showcasing the elite world of streaming and download services of topnotch music (audio and visuals). Uganda is the second African country to welcome Tidal, after South Africa. Tidal’s entry into Uganda comes weeks after the world’s biggest music company, Universal Music Group confirmed strategic operations in Nigeria and Ivory Coast. Music streaming platform Spotify had also launched in South Africa in March. Plans are in the works for Tidal to expand to additional countries where MTN operates in Africa. “One product innovation MTN will add to the Tidal subscriptions is the inclusion of data,” MTN Uganda chief marketing officer Olivier Prentout said. “MTN subscribers will be given the choice between daily, weekly and monthly packages payable only via Mobile Money (MoMo).” They also get a one month free trial of Tidal. Tidal will host a Collaboration Conference on 2 September. A concert featuring Jamaican and Nigerian stars Kranium and DJ Spinall will take place the next day.