Ryan Coogler’s film is currently dominating the box office, and Black Panther fans will also get to see more of the hero, and the fictional African country, Wakanda . Speaking to Entertainment Weekly, Marvel Studios president, Kevin Feige, said there are story plans in motion for the sequel, and while saying he had “nothing specific to reveal”, he added: “We absolutely will do a sequel. One of the favorite pastimes at Marvel Studios is sitting around on a Part One and talking and dreaming about what we would do in a Part Two. There have been plenty of those conversations as we were putting together the first Black Panther. We have ideas and a pretty solid direction on where we want to head with the second one.”

Considering that T’Challa is a recent addition to the Marvel Cinematic Universe, and that Black Panther has already made over $1 billion worldwide within a month, gotten rave reviews from movie critics and inspired artists all over the world, it’s no surprise that T’Challa will live on for a sequel. After just scratching the surface of Wakanda, there’s a number of different directions the sequel could go as the post-credits scenes for Black Panther show Wakanda opening up its doors, and T’Challa starting an outreach program. It will surely be part of the sequel’s story, with so much more they can do too. Feige says there are many more Black Panther stories to tell on the big screen. The iconic Wakandan superhero finally made his cinematic debut in Anthony and Joe Russo’s Captain America: Civil War in 2016, in which he was played by Chadwick Boseman. And now, the actor is reprising his role as the eponymous character in Ryan Coogler’s 2018 film, Black Panther, which is based on a script by Joe Robert Cole. Not only will the sequel “absolutely” happen, but it already has a strong direction, says Marvel Studios president, Kevin Feige. A sequel to “Black Panther” would seem like a no-brainer after the enormous box office and critical success of the first superhero film. And Marvel Studios President Kevin Feige confirmed it in an interview published Friday by Entertainment Weekly.

“We absolutely will do that,” Feige said of a second “Black Panther” film, though he wouldn’t reveal any plot secrets. Black Panther 2 is currently in development and does not have a release date.