“The grass is greener when you water the ground”,this is the sentence that begins the second verse of Ire, a song by Afro urban highlife singer, Adekunle Gold which has found itself resonating deep in the hearts of audiences. His latest single which was released on released on February 23, has been described as incredibly moving and it’s not hard to see as the Yoruba talking drums and instrumentals await to usher each listener to a place that is deep and yearning. Adekunle Gold, who came into limelight with his 2014 single ‘Sade’, followed by his second single ‘Orente’, after which he received the Headies award for ‘Best Alternative Song’ in 2016, stated that “Ire”, which means “goodness”, is a symbolic summary of his life experiences and his journey to becoming Adekunle Gold.” Before the release of “Ire”, Adekunle Gold had assured fans that the Seyikeyz-produced track will be “the soundtrack of your life”, and he was clearly on to something. It’s an immensely relatable song about already having all you need to be the best version of yourself. The song has since gained very emotional reactions with fans making similar emotional covers or simply just thanking the singer for sharing his music with the world- prompting the singer to create a channel where questions people had about the song could be answered menoword The first time I heard this song, I was having a bad day. I went on Twitter and someone was talking about it, I went on Boomplayer, played it and felt it ease all the hurting places.
This song is the best kind of deep – simple enough to touch everyone, profound enough to feed your soul.
God bless you @adekunlegold, you are a very special kind of magic. ‘Ire’,  is an enrapturing slow tempo song accompanied by traditional Yoruba percussion sounds in which Adekunle Gold sings, alternating between his native Yoruba language in his usual style, and English.

The video was directed by Aje and shot in various locations around Lagos, including Ajah, Ajegunle, Ikorodu and Ikoyi and employs melancholy storytelling which shows Adekunle Gold walking backwards whilst activities go on around him. Speaking about what the song means to him on Instagram, Adekunle Gold said: “‘Ire’ is a symbolic song about the hustle, the struggle, the loss, the beginning of faith and the journey to being me.”

Adekunle Gold previously revealed that the video of his new song ‘Ire’ is in memory of his younger sister, who died in 2011, due to heart complications. The singer made the disclosure after his Instagram fans asked him to clarify the ‘For Busayo’ dedication at the end of the reflective music video. While the song continues to garner responses and we all wait for his About30 album which the song will feature also in, Adekunle Gold says he is blown away by how Ire has become a sensation.     