Ben Enwonwu’s “Tutu”, described as the African Monalisa, which was recovered from a London apartment has sold for over $1.6 million (NGN 508,358,310). The famous painting which was found in a north London apartment in December last year, exceeded sale estimates at an auction in London on Wednesday. The second of three paintings of the princess created by Enwonwu during the aftermath of Nigeria’s bloody civil war, “Tutu” depicts Adetutu Ademiluyi, an Ile-Ife princess who is presumed to be alive as subsequent searches are being carried out to find out Enwonwu’s muse. According to Bonhams, an international auction house based in London, “Tutu” was painted after Enwonwu encountered the princess walking down the roads of Ile-Ife. The artist created two other pictures of Ademiluyi, the first which was stolen in 1994, and the third which remains at large. After the second version of Tutu was gotten from the family who chose to remain anonymous, and authenticated, it became a part of Bonhams’ “Africa Now” sale. The London auction house initially predicted a price tag of between $275,000 to $413,000 which is less than a quarter of the amount realised in the “20-minute bidding frenzy” on the telephone during Bonhams’ Africa Now auction on February 28. And for the first time, the auction was opened to bidders in Lagos, who took part in real time at the Wheatbaker hotel, Lagos, and finally closed out with the identity of the buyer remaining unknown. Oliver Enwonwu, who is son, painter, publisher of Omenka Online and director of Omenka Gallery, former home and studio of Ben Enwonwu also located in Lagos, expressed his excitement following the news, describing it as “a pride to Nigerians both at home and in diaspora”. He went on to say that it was “an encapsulation of his career and a recognition that is long overdue and undervalued” citing Enwonwu’s contributions to modern art alongside the likes of Picasso, going on to express disappointment in the Nigerian government’s lack of interest in making sure that works of art produced by its citizens are well documented and benefit their home country. Oliver described his father as a visionary who believed in excellence and who valued his work highly. He expressed hope that Nigerians would see this as the message it stood for in 1973, when the act of an Igbo man painting an Ile-Ife princess stood as a representation of unity and an act of revolution against the idea that different tribes cannot work together as one. Ben Enwonwu’s personal items along with his paint brushes and work clothes are currently featured at the leading art gallery which sits near the lagoon in Ikoyi, Lagos, a representation that true legacy lives on even in death. The eventual discovery of “Tutu” is partly thanks to the efforts of Giles Peppiatt, Director of African art at Bonhams. Peppiatt uncovered the work after a family in north London contacted him following recent lucrative sales of Nigerian artworks at auction. Peppiatt then made a visit to the apartment in north London and discovered the painting which had been hanging there for the last 30 years. According to Bonhams, Peppiatt said: “I was absolutely staggered when I first saw the piece. The owners, who had inherited it, had no idea of its current value.” “Tutu” was among 20 artworks by Enwonwu made available at the Bonham’s sale. His paintings “Negritude” and “The Female Form” sold for $138,000 (NGN 48,187,411) and $151,000 (NGN 46,406,152) respectively with proceeds going to the owners who bought the artwork and the auction house. “The portrait of Tutu is a national icon in Nigeria, and of huge cultural significance,” said Giles Peppiatt, Bonham’s director of modern African art. “I am delighted that it generated so much interest and set a new world record for the artist.”