Kenya’s biggest water bottling company, Coca-Cola, announced that it has launched its own study to ascertain the presence of micro-plastics in its Dasani bottled water. This comes after it was announced that a study by scientists based at the State University of New York showed that  93 percent of world’s famous bottled water products which includes theirs are contaminated by tiny pieces of plastic. According to Bussiness Daily, Coca-Cola in a statement said it has “not verified the findings” and stated that it has some of the most stringent quality standards in the industry. The scientists were commissioned by a non-profit media organization, Orb, to analyze bottled water sourced from Kenya, Indonesia, India, the US, Lebanon, Thailand, China, Mexico, Brazil and e-commerce platform Amazon. The study tested 259 bottles sold by 11 brands, purchased in 19 locations in nine different countries. Only 17 bottles were free of plastics. It revealed how major bottled water brands, including Aquafina, Dasani, Nestle, and Evian all have tens, hundreds, and in some cases, thousands of microplastic particles floating in their products. According to the study, these microparticles are typically about the same thickness as a single strand of human hair, and scientists don’t know yet what gulping them down might be doing to our bodies. “We stand by the safety of our products, and welcome continued study of plastics in our environment,” Coca-Cola said in a statement. “However, as a precautionary measure, we have constituted a project team that will carry out a similar study, with a view to ascertaining if the findings in the study are valid. This independent study will inform our subsequent course of action,” said Coca-Cola. Coca-Cola further said that the presence of plastics does not, however, indicate that the water is harmful to health since studies on their effects on the human body are yet to be conducted. However, in 2017 UK medical journal, Lancet published an article on Microplastics and Human Health where it said that while no one has come out to quantify the effect of microplastics on human beings urgent measures are needed to reduce its use and to understand the effects of these particles on both ecosystems and the human body. 