In another episode of the breakthrough of Africans who choose to go the non linear route, young Nigerian kids have broken the internet with a dance video which has captured the attention of many, most of all Rihanna. The young Nigerian dancers found their way into the heart of Barbadian singer, songwriter and actress, Rihanna, with a dance video of them dancing to “Nowo”, a song by popular artists DJ Spinall and Wizkid. Rihanna shared the dance video in admiration of the young talents as she celebrated a new milestone in her career, for being the first female artist to cross 2 billion worldwide streams on Apple Music. The post, which Rihanna said represented her mood, has generated about 2.6 million likes — a lot of comments from artists and fans alike, and interest in who the kids are. The kids were found to be part of a troupe out of Lagos, Nigeria, called the Dreamcatchers, and made up of 10 children—seven girls and three boys, who, according to their Instagram bio, are street kids from Ikorodu—all of whom have been dancing together since November 2014. “Dance puts us in school and off the streets,” the bio of their Instagram page says. The kids and their 26-year-old instructor, Seyi Oluyole, were recently nominated for the Best Creative Social Enterprise Award via African Creative Exhibition and Awards. In one of the group’s Instagram posts, the caption reads, “This time last week, we didn’t have lunch, but here we are this week getting so much love with 12,000 followers!” (That number now reads more as it is currently at about 48, 000). The kids have a lot of gratitude for Oluyole, the force behind the group: “You see all our smiles and dance videos, there is someone behind it all. There is a special person who took us off the street and takes care of us. She feeds us, sends us to school, buys us clothes and takes care of us even when we are sick. She is Aunty Seyi.” The fame they have found, after Rihanna shared the video, which has also been posted by Naomi Campbell and Diddy is bound to resonate. With artists like Wizkid and DJ Khaled commenting, the kids made her and others, a thank you video, in which they held up a sign and told her that they love her. The children’s welfare, from education to shelter, are taken care of by the group’s founder, Seyi Oluyole, a 26 year old who chose to invest in the future of the kids through dance, and by encouraging them to stay in school. The platform of social media has shown once again its ability to transform lives with just an individual who has the publicity and reach- previous instances with people like Emanuella who recently landed a project with Disney, this Ghanaian teacher who got Microsoft’s attention with a chalk board computer, and #WeAreNigerianCreatives which continues to showcase the creative talents across the country. Especially for Africans, this is very rewarding for those who usually have little or no support systems for budding creative sectors.  