The outflow of migrants from sub-Saharan Africa to Europe and the United State is bound to increase in the years to come. According to a polling by a demographic research group in Washington, Pew Research Center,  from the past 8 years Nigeria, Ghana, and Kenya recorded the highest number of emigration, as 1.5 million people have left sub-Saharan Africa for Europe and the United States since 2010. Using data gathered from European statistical agency, Eurostat, the U.S. Department of Homeland Security, the U.S. State Department, and its own polling, Pew discovered that over 400,000 sub-Saharan migrants moved to the United States, and more than 5 million relocated to other sub-Saharan countries since 2010, mostly as refugees. Pew study revealed that movement of people out of sub-Saharan Africa has grown steadily nearly every year and more people intend to leave the region as they seek to escape harsh economy and political realities, as well as improve their standard of living. Findings from six countries indicated people’s willingness to exit sub-Saharan Africa if the situation presents itself to avoid political instability and modern-day slavery that plagues the region. Survey respondents in Senegal, Ghana, and Nigeria said that they had actual plans to move in the next five years. “The survey results do indicate certain restlessness among people who want to leave their countries or plan to in the next years, but not all of those will necessarily follow through and move,” Phillip Connor, senior researcher of the report, told the Thomson Reuters Foundation. In 2015 almost 2 million residents of Ghana applied for a U.S. diversity lottery that is restricted to 50,000 people worldwide. As at the time, the lottery also drew strong interest in the Republic of Congo, Liberia and Sierra Leone. However, it is reported that overall global migration has strained resources in host countries that are struggling to shoulder the costs. Migration has also fueled political tensions and instigated the need to call for borders closure in some countries.