If you haven’t already heard, Black Panther is already one of the biggest movies in recent years. It exceeded expectations with a torrent of positive reviews even from movie critics in its opening weekend, making nearly $100 million more than predicted and it has continued to reverberate—the movie crossing the $1 billion mark on March 10 at the global box office in just 26 days. With the movie spurring a vibrant community, thoughts and praise, Disney and Marvel’s Black Panther has now achieved what no other film in the Marvel Cinematic Universe has accomplished, as it remained #1 at the weekend box office since release. Black Panther has so far grossed $520 million domestically, making it the ninth-highest release ever. It is the first film since “Star Wars: The Force Awakens” to lead the North American box office for four straight weekends and it has grossed $1.08 billion worldwide, 21st highest of all time—bolstered by a strong start in China where it’s now at about $49M after two days. Meanwhile,  A Wrinkle In Time claims #2 spot in a historic weekend for Black films. Based on Madeleine L’Engle’s 1962 classic fantasy novel, “A Wrinkle in Time” stars Storm Reid, Reese Witherspoon, Zach Galifianakis, Chris Pine, Mindy Kaling, Gugu Mbatha-Raw, and the especially dazzling Oprah Winfrey, as “Mrs. Which”, a wizened supernatural being. The film, directed by Ava DuVernay, follows a young girl (Reid), her step-brother (Deric McCabe), and a friend (Levi Miller) as they embark on a journey that spans time and space in search of her missing father. Despite A Wrinkle in Time having a softer opening in comparison to its huge $100M-plus production cost, it earned $33 million this weekend, meaning Ava Duvernay, has joined Coogler—who just followed F. Gary Gray to become the second black director to score a billion dollar movie worldwide—to become the first duo of black directors to top the weekend box office, and also the first black woman to accomplish that feat. Both films, distributed by Disney, have been regarded as a major breakthrough with positive messages which boast of, and inspire diversity and inclusivity in society and the world at large.