Africa’s richest man, Aliko Dangote has donated a N1.2 billion ($3.3 million) ultra-modern business school to Bayero University Kano (BUK), northern Nigeria. The business school is the first of its kind in the Northern part of the country and the first to offer a doctorate program (Ph.D) in the country. Speaking at the commissioning ceremony of the school that was named Dangote Business School in BUK, the billionaire industrialist noted that the educational structure is geared towards boosting world-standard entrepreneurial learning and accelerating wealth creation in Africa’s biggest economy. Dangote Business School comprises of a 650 seating capacity auditorium, two theatres, four lecture halls, two libraries, incubation centre, two cafeterias, 800kva soundproof generator and borehole among others. Stating his reason for constructing the business school, Dangote noted that “good quality education is the bedrock of meaningful development in the country and only a sound mind can facilitate development.” With the aim to be one of the biggest in the sub-Sahara region of Africa, the renowned business man noted that measures are being taken to ensure that the school holds up to international standard and there are on-going discussions regarding affiliating the school with United States Harvard Business School. On a mission to drive economic growth in his home country in line with the African dream, Dangote ascertained that global business information would be available to African leaders who aim to advance their businesses and build their capacities, by carrying out standard research on tackling environmental hindrances to business in the country. Also present at the occasion is the former governor of the Central Bank of Nigeria (CBN) and Emir of Kano, Sanusi Lamido, who commended Dangote for his contribution towards the educational development of the country, and added that a good educational structure is key to national development. The Vice Chancellor of the University, Prof. Muhammed Yahuza Bello said the school will live to its name and tradition considering the university adopted the name “Dangote Business School”, as the name “Dangote” internationally synonymous with innovation, entrepreneurship and successes in business and industry and pledged that the school will live by its name and tradition.  