Egypt Face, a new social media network that is set to rival Facebook has been launched in Egypt. The founders of the website are unknown but there are speculations that it is a project of the Egyptian government. Communications Minister, Yasser Al-Qadi had earlier announced that Egypt was set to launch its own social network. The site’s domain “egface.com” was registered on March 14, two days after the Minister’s announcement, Africannews reported. This development comes at a time when United States resident sued Facebook and a British-based political consultancy for obtaining data on millions of the social media users without their permission. While highlighting the need to safeguard citizens’ personal details, Al-Qadi explained that protection of data and information is very important and the Egyptian state is keen on safeguarding the privacy of its citizens. However, since the announcement, many Egyptians online have made fun of the idea saying that it is a ply by the government and intelligence agencies to gather information about users and monitor their accounts. Critics have also said that the North African country may be following the footstep of China where the government has blocked Twitter, Facebook, Google, YouTube and many foreign news websites. The north African country under president Abdul Fatteh Al-Sisi has always been accused of clamping down on online communication. Cairo has closed Facebook accounts whiles several online users have been arrested for “inciting against the state, army, and police.” Egypt Face VS Facebook The homepage is a direct reproduction of Facebook. Users of Egypt Face can access the platform with three main languages – Arabic, U.S. English and French, while Facebook has more than a score of languages. Egface.com. pools user statistics including Country, Region, City, Ip Address, the platform or Operating System they are using and Browser. There were 513 members as at the time the site was visited (11 GMT, March 23, 2018) Like Facebook, members can share posts, upload photos, videos, audio and files among others. 