Ethiopian Airlines recently embarked on its first flight to Buenos Aires with an All Women Crew and we can boldly say they are on a mission to connect Africa to the world with women at the forefront.

The airline, on March 8, dispatched an all women-operated flight from Addis Ababa utilizing its standout B787 Dreamliner, to Buenos Aires, to mark International Women’s Day—Buenos Aires becoming 6th destination for the airline in the Americas in addition to their services to Washington, New York, Los Angeles, Toronto, and São Paulo. Ethiopian Airlines, which prides itself on being Africa’s largest airline group, announced its five weekly flights to Buenos Aires, Argentina, the world’s capital of Tango, home of centurion old buildings and a vibrant cultural scene. Argentina is one of the largest economies in Latin America and Buenos Aires is the 2nd largest city in South America with a population of over 13 million. “We are glad to add Buenos Aires, our 6th gateway to the Americas, to our extensive global network. Our new flight to Buenos Aires will provide efficient connections to our network in Asia, the Middle East, and Africa, including Beijing, Shanghai, Seoul, Tokyo, Mumbai, Delhi, Dubai, Beirut, Nairobi, and Cairo.” Tewolde GebreMariam, Group CEO, said according to a press release. The airline had previously began this initiative, becoming the first African airline to fly an all women crew out of the continent in 2015. The history making flight deck crew operated the flight from the capital, Addis Ababa to Bangkok, Thailand. with every part of the flight done by a woman, from the pilots who flew the plane, cabin crew, ground staff, and air traffic controllers. Even an all female customs and immigration officers crew on arrival in Bangkok. In its seventy plus years of operation, Ethiopian Airlines has become one of the continent’s leading carriers, unrivaled in efficiency and operational success, and now their continued effort of keeping gender equality at the core of their business, as well as setting an example for the aviation industry as a whole is not going unnoticed. “We are all the more happy that the flights will be launched on 8 March, International Women’s Day,” Mr. Tewolde GebreMariam, continued, “To mark this important occasion and as part of our commitment of mainstreaming gender into our core business, we have made the inaugural flight on 8 March an All Women Operated Flight.” Commenting on the celebrated flight in 2015, the CEO GebreMariam said, the historic endeavour was meant to empower and inspire women. “As you know, here in the continent of Africa, we are lagging behind in women empowerment. So this is going to inspire all the school girls in Africa that they have a very bright future in the 21st century,” GebreMariam said. Ethiopian Airlines has made great strides towards offering world class aviation services and the airline’s efforts have been rewarded, winning various continental and international awards.   