Puma unveiled a series of new kits to be worn during the upcoming international break including African countries; Senegal, Ghana, Cameroon, and Ivory Coast. The release of Puma’s new jerseys on Monday comes after the release of kits for the France, England, Portugal and Nigeria by Nike which caused massive reactions on social media. All of the shirts by the German firm are designed from a white template, each top having a slight colour variance on the collar and sleeves. Serbia is the only country to get a stripe down the front of their shirt while the likes of Uruguay, Senegal, Serbia and Switzerland will all don identical white jerseys in this summer’s World Cup. A host of the bland kits were leaked last month by Footy Headlines, with supporters claiming the designs are getting “worse and worse.” The new jerseys could be shown to the world in the upcoming international friendlies, with Switzerland revealing they will wear the top against Greece on Friday as reported by The Sun. Italy, Austria and the Czech Republic, along with African trio Cameroon, Ghana and Ivory Coast all have been designed new kits. Of the 10 new kits, Senegal, Switzerland, Uruguay, and Serbia will wear the latest designs at the 2018 FIFA World Cup in Russia with countries like Ivory Coast failing to qualify for the World Cup for the first time since 2002. Each kit features design elements that represents each country, such as the Austrian top using the coat of arms badge, consisting of using a double-headed eagle, symbolizing their liberation, and all kits have Puma’s evoKNIT thermoregulation technology, which has an adaptive cooling system and enhanced moisture management that claims to deliver the perfect on-pitch body temperature. Stefano Favaro, Puma’s Teamsport Creative Director, said: “When our Federation’s step out onto the pitch they all play with a nation’s support, and a passion for the crest that adorns their chest. With this clean, contemporary design statement, we wanted to strip back all the noise and elements that stand between our teams, players, and crowd to celebrate what they play for, the badge, the flag, and the fans.” “Unified by colour, each shirt celebrates the elementary design features of each federation; including badge, flag or iconography, allowing the supporting nation to shine through,” an official press release read. “Under one design language, PUMA has created a kit design story that is clean, stylish and free of distractions. Each kit is distilled to the unique and core elements that represent each federation; from the nine blue lines on the neck of the Uruguay shirt that represent the nine original departments of the nation to the red of the national flag on the collar of the Swiss jersey.” The designs, however, have attracted a fair amount of criticism on social media, with some describing it as the most boring and unimaginative set of kits they could have released, and others saying they are “simply uninspiring”. Senegal is likely to come away as the happiest of the teams in this release. Their away top features an absolutely visible pattern on the front, which subtly adds a huge amount of detail to the shirt, giving the nation a classy look. The Puma jerseys also unveiled the jerseys for Ghana, Ivory Coast, Austria, Cameroon, Italy and Czech Republic even though they won be at the 2018 World Cup in Russia.