As a result of the TransAtlantic slave trade, many West Africans that were sold off into slavery ended up in Brazil with Yoruba—the language predominantly spoken in West Africa—transplanted along with its people who managed to keep their ancestral culture and traditions alive despite the inhumanity they faced. Centuries later, evidence of its influence can be seen in the music, food and spiritual practices of various communities. Last month the Ooni of Ife—the spiritual leader of the Yoruba people—visited the country where he was met by crowds of Black Brazilians who showed up to pay their respects. Now, the Brazilian government has decided to introduce a compulsory study of African History and Yoruba language into the primary and secondary schools curriculum. The announcement was made on 2 September, according to NewsmakersNG, during the fourth edition of the National meetings of the African-Brazilian storytellers, themed “AYO” (meaning joy or celebration in Yoruba) which featured a host of prominent Yoruba scholars and thinkers including legendary Nigerian Nobel Laureate Wole Soyinka, São Paulo-based Nigerian artist, Adeyinka Olaiya and Dr. Sophie Oluwole, the first woman to receive a doctorate in Yoruba Studies. A number of Latino scholars and public figures where also in attendance to speak on the influence of Yoruba traditions on Brazilian cultural beliefs. Speakers such as Peruvian Nobel laureate and professor, Mário Vargas Llosa emphasized the importance of promoting Yoruba culture as a means of fostering meaningful connections between Brazilians and their African heritage. The celebration happened at the region of Quilombola, State of Minas Gerais in Brazil, where many of the early Yoruba victims of the slave trade and their descendants have been located since the 13th century. Brazil’s Minister of Culture, Dr. Sérgio Sá Leitão who made the announcement during the celebratory weekend made it clear at the event that the government will continue to promote the importance of African culture in Brazil, bringing back to Afro-descendants the culture and tradition of the African people. Brazil recently suffered a devastating loss to its scientific and cultural history when its National Museum, located near the Maracanã stadium in Rio de Janeiro, caught fire, quickly burning two hundred years of work, specimens, and millions of irreplaceable items—including rare African artifacts, almost to rubble in just a few hours. The country still has a long way to go in terms of race relations and the treatment of its black population, however, this is a step forward to preserve the country’s rich African roots and pave ways for a rapid recognition and understanding of traditional Yoruba culture, ancestry, spirituality, folktales, and history in Brazilian community schools.