FIFA has announced a shortlist of nominees for its seven annual awards. The Best FIFA Men’s Player award which had 10 nominees in total, have been whittled down to three on 3 September. Egyptian and Liverpool forward Mohammed Salah has been listed among the final contestants for the award for the Men’s Player of the Year. Salah, 30, was the first African player to make the top three since Cameroon’s Samuel Eto’o in 2005. Alongside Salah are Cristiano Ronaldo (Juventus and Portugal), and winner of the UEFA Awards, Luka Modric (Real Madrid and Croatia). Wondering how much Salah will get from FIFA if he wins? I was wondering too, but I found out he gets nothing. FIFA does not pay footballers for winning its awards. Here is what Ronaldo got last year for winning: But it is also one of the reasons why Juventus will pay 100 million euros ($117 million)for a 33-year-old footballer. Such nominations are a confirmation of a footballer’s worth and has a huge impact on the player’s market value.  Meanwhile, it’s the first time in 11 years that Argentina Captain, Lionel Messi did not make the top three players shortlisted by FIFA for the awards. This year’s Best FIFA Women’s Player nominees are Lyon pair Ada Hegerberg and Dzsenifer Maroszan as well as Brazil’s Marta. The FIFA Puskas award—given for the best goal of the year—is made up of 10 nominees including Gareth Bale’s overhead kick in the Champions League final, Benjamin Pavard’s exquisite strike in France’s 4-3 win over Argentina in the World Cup last 16, and Salah’s derby stunner against Everton at Anfield last season. Two World Cup moments are nominated for the FIFA Fan Award including Japan fans cleaning up the Mordovia Arena after their team’s 2-1 win over Colombia and Peru’s impressive away following. The Best FIFA Women’s Coach shortlist consists of Lyon’s Reynald Pedros, Japan’s Asako Takakura and Sarina Wiegman of the Netherlands. The federation revealed that the winner of the Best FIFA Goalkeeper Award will be chosen by a specialist panel, while the winners of The Best FIFA Men’s Player, Women’s Player, Men’s Coach and Women’s Coach awards will be determined by 25 percent votes from national team coaches, national team captains, select media representatives, including The Guardian’s Christian Okpara, and 25 percent online vote. In a ceremony in London witnessed by FIFA legends such as Nigeria’s Nwankwo Kanu, Sol Campbell, Kelly Smith, and Peter Schmeichel, the nominees were recognised for their achievements in elite football between July 2017 and July 2018. “The winners will be crowned at the Royal Festival Hall (Southbank), where the great and good of world football will descend upon the city to celebrate the very “best” the sport has to offer,” a statement by FIFA read. It has been nearly a quarter of a century since the last time an African player, George Weah, won the FIFA award in 1995. A win by Salah or Modric would break a decade-old hold on the trophy by Messi and Ronaldo. Salah was the top club scorer in Europe last year, scoring 44 goals for Liverpool and assisting 16 launching Liverpool into the final of the 2018 Champions League. He is the current African Player of the Year. Voting for the five main awards has now closed but voting for the FIFA Fan Award and the Puskás Award though extended three weeks, is limited to FIFA.com registered users. The winner will be announced in London on 24 September. On Monday in London, the finalists for #TheBest #FIFAFootballAwards were unveiled! Who do you think will win at London’s Royal Festival Hall on 24 September?! pic.twitter.com/NJDLeYUtPK — FIFA.com (@FIFAcom) September 3, 2018 