The Design Museum has announced 87 nominees for the 2018 Beazley Design Award. Every year since 2008, hundreds of design experts from around the world nominate the most innovative and thought-provoking designs from the past 12 months. Now in its eleventh year, Beazley Designs of the Year is the Design Museum’s annual celebration of the most original and exciting products, concepts and designers in the world today. Opening during London Design Festival for the first time, the mammoth shortlist of 87 nominees is split into categories of products, transport, graphics, fashion, digital and architecture. Sony’s new generation Aibo, the latest version of the robotic dog that debuted 12 years ago, Rihanna’s inclusive make-up line “Fenty Beauty,” the costume designs in Black Panther, and the world’s first plastic-free shopping aisle are among the nominees for the Beazley Designs of the Year 2018. Also shortlisted for the award is Nike’s Nigerian football team collection. The popular Nike jerseys saw fans queue outside Nike’s flagship store for several hours in the morning of Friday, 1 June for the release of Nigeria’s World Cup jersey for Russia 2018. The World Cup’s most anticipated football kit designed by Matthew Wolff and inspired by the iconic strip worn by the nation for the 1994 World Cup in the USA, sold out within hours online and is now on its way to contest in Beazley’s Fashion category.  “One of the things I like about design is the fact that it’s all-encompassing and there’s so many ways of defining it. Its parameters are always expanding,” said Aric Chen, the guest curator who shortlisted this year’s 87 entries out of hundreds pitched by a group of nominators, to CNN. “We used to always talk about design as problem solving or forging emotional connections or some other clear cut definition,” said Chen. “At a time when the world itself is less clear cut, designers are also adapting to that in a very powerful way: addressing uncertainty by either resisting it or embracing it, and always finding positive opportunities and possibilities.” A specially selected jury will choose a winner for each category and an overall winner for the international awards. Last year, British-Ghanaian architect David Adjaye emerged as the winner for his National Museum of African American History and Culture in Washington, DC. This edition’s overall winner, along with a winner for each category, will be announced on 18 November, 2018. Beazley Designs of the Year is on display at London’s Design Museum from 12 September, 2018 to 6 January, 2019.