Star wars actor, John Boyega, talked about what he has planned during his press trip in Nigeria in an interview on CNBC Africa. Boyega recently touched down in Nigeria to do more than promote his recent off the charts film, Pacific Rim Uprising. In a new interview with Onyi Sunday, host of Power Lunch West Africa, the 26 year old British-Nigerian actor talked in detail about his new production company, UpperRoom Productions, which he formed with Femi Oguns in 2016, and his new movie Pacific Rim, as well as how he’s ready to invest in great stories from creators from his homeland, Nigeria. “I’m very much interested in original, Nigerian stories,” he said. “I grew up on Nollywood—the first Nollywood movie I ever watched was Blood Sisters with Genevieve Nnaji and…it’s a chance for me to develop these stories, merge Nollywood with Hollywood; connect to artists here.” Despite being the second largest movie producers in the world, the Nollywood industry is one that is only beginning to enter a revolutionary phase, which in comparison with the music industry, is about time. Boyega, adding that he intends to tell these stories in a professional way, continued: “It’s a chance for me to develop these stories, merge Hollywood with Nollywood, to bring the genuine and most important stories to light but captured in a very important and professional way. “We’re developing a few Nigerian stories and choosing which makes sense budget-wise. We’re probably looking at an indie budget of $20-$25 million dollars.” Boyega was revealed as Forbes’ 10th highest grossing actor of 2017 after starring in more than six blockbusters that raked in millions of Dollars at the box office, and hopefully, his input will go a long way in producing great quality Nigerian movies that still retain its authenticity. Boyega has featured in movies such as “The Circle,” “Detroit,” “Star Wars: The Last Jedi”, and in the film adaptation of Chimamanda Ngozi Adichie’s novel, Half of a Yellow Sun, where he played Ugu.