A photography exhibition showcasing magical moments of wildlife from Maasai Mara National Reserve in Kenya opens to the public today in Dubai. The “Wild Trails” is a new exhibition from Hermis Haridas, the founder of photography magazine Paws Trails Explorers which is a global platform for photographers and wildlife enthusiasts. The photography exhibition will showcase 21 magical moments from Maasai Mara, Kenya, photographed by Haridas, who is also Sony’s Alpha Ambassador for Middle East and Africa on wildlife. The Maasai Mara National Reserve, one of the most popular tourism destinations in Kenya, is located in the Great Rift Valley, Narok County, Kenya in primarily open grassland. Also known as Masai Mara and by locals as The Mara, it is named in honor of the Maasai people—the ancestral inhabitants of the area—and their description of the area when looked at from afar: “Mara” is Maa (Maasai language) for “spotted,” an apt description for the circles of trees, scrub, savanna, and cloud shadows that mark the area. The large game reserve is contiguous with the Serengeti National Park in Mara Region, Tanzania and globally famous for its exceptional population of lions, leopards and cheetahs, and the annual migration of zebra, Thomson’s gazelle, and wildebeest to and from the Serengeti every year from July to October, known as the Great Migration. Together with the Serengeti National Park, it forms Africa’s most diverse, incredible and spectacular eco-systems. Haridas has been pursuing wildlife photography for 9 years while living in Dubai. As well as being a photographer, he’s also a nature lover and an avid traveller. His work has gathered international recognition and he has been published in various international publications. He will also be giving a series of talks at the gallery, sharing stories about his experiences and giving advice as he talks about his photographic approach. Nisha Purushothaman, the co-founder of Paws Trails Explorers explains,  “The idea whose seed was sown when we explored the world together in search of breathtaking moments. The seed which germinated when we set out to right the wrongs done to the environment by planting trees around the world, that seed is now a small plant, waving its tiny branches and baby leaves, asking for attention from the world.” The exhibition will run from Thursday 26 April – 29 April, 2018 at the Gallery of Light in DUCTAC, Mall of the Emirates.