This week, Nigerian communications service and network solutions company Mainone announced that it has secured the C1B license, which will enable it to land its trans-Atlantic submarine cable and build transmission infrastructure in Cote d’Ivoire. This will see the company expand its business to the West African country. According to ITWebAfrica, the impact of this will be to strengthen connectivity, reduce international capacity costs and support wholesale customers, major operators and internet service providers (ISPs). It signals further expansion across West Africa for MainOne, which already has a presence in ten countries in the region and operates a 100G international submarine cable system. “Cote d’Ivoire is the largest economy in the West African Economic and Monetary Union (WAEMU) and a very important hub for business and transport in West Africa,” said Funke Opeke, CEO of MainOne. Ivorian authorities believe that the entry of MainOne will help make bandwidth accessible across Cote d’Ivoire and other neighboring countries which will, in turn, drive down the cost of bandwidth in the country. “We have just taken an important step through this authorization for the improvement of the telecommunication infrastructure of our country, specifically the improvement of international connectivity,” said Bruno Koné, the country’s Minister for Communication, Digital Economy and Postal Services. “MainOne cable will have an impact on price and quality and will strengthen the security of our infrastructure.” “The dynamism of the national economy and accelerated development of the digital economy in Cote d’Ivoire as well as its regional leadership makes it a natural hub for the West African region and guided MainOne’s decision to invest in Cote d’Ivoire,” said Opeke. The company plans to invest close to US$20m in the country. It will commence the construction of its digital transmission cable in June and it is expected to be concluded in the second half of 2019. MainOne is currently in 10 countries, which includes Nigeria, Ghana, Cote d’Ivoire, Burkina Faso, Togo, Cameroun, Benin, Niger, Senegal and Chad.