Lekki Port LFTZ Enterprise (LPLE), the promoters of Lekki Deep Seaport, recently signed a Memorandum of  Understanding (MOU) with CMA CGM Group, a France-based world leader in maritime transport, to operate the seaport of the future container terminal in the port. This deal is CMA CGM’s second shipping company in Nigeria and on the African market. CMA CGM, through its subsidiary CMA Terminals, will be responsible for marketing, operations, and maintenance of the container terminal at Lekki Deep Sea Port. Upon completion, the container terminal will be equipped with a 1,200-meter-long quay as well as 13 quay cranes and will have a capacity of 2.5 million Twenty-foot Equivalent Units (TEUs). With its 16-meter depth, it will allow the Group to deploy ships with a capacity of up to 14,000 TEUs. The port which is expected to start operation at the end of 2020 will have 2 container berths and will be Nigeria’s first deep-sea port. “We are pleased to sign this Memorandum of Agreement with LPLE to operate Lekki Port’s container terminal,” said Farid Salem, Executive Officer of the CMA CGM Group. “As Nigeria’s first deep-sea port, Lekki Port represents a strategic choice for the CMA CGM Group. Thanks to its position and capacity, Lekki Port will allow us to bring to Nigeria larger container ships from Europe and Asia to better serve our customers and pursue our commitment to the development of the entire region. With CMA CGM’s unique service offering and expertise combined with our logistics and inland services, our presence in Lekki Port will benefit the entire Nigerian supply chain and market as well as neighboring countries.” This port is expected to help reduce congestion in the Lagos port, which is fully in line with the CMA CGM Group’s development in the region. This terminal will also serve as a transshipment hub to Nigeria’s neighbouring countries, most especially Benin. During the official flag off ceremony of the Lekki port project recently the  Federal Government of Nigeria pledged its total support for the project. This was made known by the Vice President, Professor Yemi Osinbajo who represented  President Muhammadu Buhari. “The signing of the agreement with the CMA CGM Group as another step in the right direction towards the actualization of the Port, which would become the deepest port in Sub-Saharan Africa,” said Navin Nahata, Chief Executive Officer of Lekki Port LFTZ Enterprise. The future Lekki Deep Sea Port will be developed, built and operated by LPLE, a joint venture enterprise led by the Tolaram Group, the Lagos State Government and the Nigerian Ports Authority.