As part of measures to reduce its wage bill, cash trapped South African utility firm, Eskom plans on reducing the number of its executives from 21 to 10 before the end of 2018. The power utility firm had previously expressed that despite its efforts to curb expenditure, operating costs have continued to increase dramatically while output has remained largely unchanged. As a result, the company announced plans to reduce its 48,000 workforce by letting go of 7,000 people in its employ over the next five years. However, Eskom’s Board of Directors while reviewing the company’s organisational design came up with another strategy to enhance operational cost and efficiencies; the approval of a Section 189 process for its executive structure. A process that affects only the members of the executive structure. It is under this Section 189 process that Dave Nicholls, the head of nuclear energy, who was due to retire next year is being let go at the end of December 2018 alongside ten other executives. According to the firm’s Chief Executive, Phakamani Hadebe, “it is crucial that we set ourselves up for the future, and I believe that the steps we have taken so far are already placing us on a path towards stability.” Early this month, Eskom sought a bailout as it asked the government to take on the company’s R100 billion ($7 billion) debt. While waiting for government approval or denial, Eskom on 14 December, secured a $104 million French loan from Agence Francaise de Developpement (AFD) to help bolster the power transmission grid along the west coast of the country. Since November, Eskom has instituted daily rolling blackouts to avert a total collapse of the grid and regardless of a bailout, the outages are expected to persist for a few more months pending when Eskom’s new management resolves the company’s maintenance backlogs, construction delays and coal shortages. On 4 November, Eskom fell 4,000 megawatts short of the country’s electricity demand of 28,000 megawatts. The power utility has the ability to produce 45,583 megawatt but could only supply 24,000 megawatts due to maintenance issues. Presently, Eskom is in operation because of a R350 billion ($25.36 million) debt guarantee from the government but it still struggling to become financially sustainable and profitable enough to maintain regular power supply for the people.