Kenya is set to add 100MW of clean energy to its national grid as the country’s second largest wind energy farm project enters its final close, following the acquisition by leading growth markets investor Actis, of the equity interests of IFC, a member of the World Bank Group and African Infrastructure Investment Managers (AIIM), the infrastructure arm of Old Mutual Alternative Investments (OMAI). The project is now funded by equity from Actis (88 percent) and Kenyan company Craftskills Wind Energy International (12 percent) alongside senior debt from the Overseas Private Investment Corporation (OPIC), the US Government’s development finance institution. Once operational, Kipeto, Kenya’s second largest wind farm will supply 100MW of clean energy to the national grid as a significant contribution to Kenya’s Vision 2030 and Big Four Agenda. The Kipeto project was originally conceived by Craftskills Wind Energy International, with support from General Electric (GE). AIIM and IFC InfraVentures co-developed the project with Craftskills from 2014 until early 2018, executing a 20-year Power Purchase Agreement (PPA) with Kenya Power and Lighting in 2016. The project is now preparing for the construction of 60 GE 1.7-103 wind turbines and a 17km (220KV) transmission line to carry the power to Isinya substation in Kajiado County, where Kipeto is also located, providing power to the equivalent of approximately 40,000 homes in the region. It is anticipated that more than 400 job opportunities will be created during the construction phase of the project and an additional 70 permanent jobs during the operational phase. “We thank IFC and AIIM for such a well-managed period of transition. We are excited about taking the Kipeto project forward and we are committed to maintaining the highest level of standards drawing on our 70 years of investing responsibly in Africa. The project will not only contribute significantly to the Government’s Vision 2030 agenda but will also have a positive impact on the local community through the creation of jobs and provision of over 80 houses,” said Lisa Pinsley, Director in the energy business at Actis. Actis, IFC, AIIM and Craftskills worked with specialist consultants during both the planning and development stages of the project to undertake a series of environmental assessments and impact studies. With support from USAID Power Africa, Kipeto has developed and initiated a Biodiversity Action Plan, which is designed around the international best practice outlined in the IFC environmental performance standards.