Zambia has for the umpteenth time denied claims that China is taking over its state power utility to recover over $6 billion owed to the world economic power, which has been criticized for its activities in Africa. The latest denial is in reaction to the statement by U.S. National Security Advisor John Bolton, that China’s quest for more power in Africa was evident in Zambia, where the Asian country was poised to take over its utility company Zesco to recover debt. However, Zambia’s presidential spokesman Amos Chanda told Reuters that Bolton was wrong to have said the country owed China between $6-10 billion. According to him, Zambia’s total external debt is $9.7 billion and only $3.1 billion of that is owed to China. Also, Zesco was not used as collateral for the loan. “It is regrettable that such information can come from such a high-ranking official. In fact, Zesco is not within the scheme of Zambia’s debt to China,” Reuters quoted Chanda to have said. Zambia had since written an official de’marche to the United States government to request a retraction of Bolton’s statement. “Such misinformation gives a bad name to America’s foreign policy,” Zambia’s Minister of Foreign Affairs Joe Malanji said, adding that Zambia is not in a debt crisis, as its debt to GDP ratio is healthy. Malanji also said that Zambia was managing its debt repayment very well and had not defaulted in any of its repayment plans. But the IMF rejected Zambia’s borrowing plans in February. The reason the international lender gave was that borrowing as contained in the plans might make the country’s debt load harder to sustain. Zambia’s Debt-GDP ratio. Source: tradingeconomics.com Data from the southern African country’s Ministry of Finance showed that it spent K943 million ($78.5 million) on debt servicing in November. Finance minister Margaret Mwanakatwe said in November that the Zambian government planned to send a delegation to China by the end of this year to discuss the country’s debt and debt restructuring. The statement from US National Security Advisor John Bolton is part of ongoing Western attacks on Chinese investments in Africa which has been labelled a debt trap. But China is paying no attention to such comments as it has revealed it would do more in 2019, especially in East Africa.