The High-visibility (HV) vest, a type of personal protective equipment (PPE), was supposed to serve as a form of safety reflective kit but thanks to the yellow vest movement (gilets jaunes) in France, Egyptian businesses now have to tone down on their sales due to the governments fear of a similar protest in the country. On Tuesday 11 December, Egypt placed restrictions on the sale of yellow reflective vests, warning distributors not to sell bulk quantities of the personal protective equipment to walk-in buyers as well as restricting wholesale sales to businesses. The only time wholesale sales is permitted is after the distributor has secured the permission of the police. Should they fail to adhere, possible punishments awaits them. It appears that some retailers are as scared of a possible protest as the government is, while for some its the fear of a possible jail time that backs their decision to discontinue selling the yellow vest at this time. Regardless of which, the money they usually make from the sale of yellow vests are bound to plummet. Already, six retailers in Egypt’s capital, Cairo, where large quantities of industrial safety stores are sold have closed shop, four closed out of police compulsion. On Tuesday, Egyptian authorities ordered a pre-trial detention of Mohamed Ramadan, a human rights lawyer, days after he posted a picture of himself on Facebook wearing a reflective yellow vest. An action that infringes on the fundamental human rights and would reflect negatively in the inventory of businesses, especially those selling safety clothing and equipment. The yellow vest has become a symbol of anti-austerity protests in France. The reflective vest began as a movement but has escalated to violent protests. However, the message remains the same—the fight against fuel prices, the high cost of living and a disproportionate burden of the government’s tax reforms that fall on the working and middle classes. The ban and the arrest show Egypt’s anxiety over possible anti-government protests in weeks preceding the eighth anniversary of the 2011 Arab Spring revolution. The revolution led to the adoption of a new constitution and democratic elections in which Mohamed Morsi was elected president. Although there is already an anti-street-protest law in place in the country, each year Egypt deploys security officials on the streets to prevent any popular marches in commemoration of the 25 January anniversary. The bigger question is, why is Egypt scared if the country’s policies are favourable to all? Normally, a reflective vest is an occupational requirement worn by transportation and construction workers. There are other colours of the vest but the most common are yellow and orange. The yellow vest was chosen as a symbol for France protests because all French motorists had been required by law ten years ago to have high-visibility vests in their vehicles when driving. As a result, reflective vests became widely available, inexpensive and symbolic. Unfortunately, the reverse would be the case in Egypt where buyers would be required to pay more should they see a retailer willing to sell to them. Already France’s yellow vest protest has inspired a red vest movement in Tunisia (Gilet Rouge), which aims to give young people dignity and the right to a dignified life.