Washington DC-based Private Equity firm Emerging Capital Partners (ECP) is acquiring a substantial majority in Kenyan restaurant and coffeehouse chain Artcaffé Group, a year after exiting Java House, another coffee chain in Kenya, where demand for international cuisine and casual, high-quality dining experiences is rising. ECP’s move is in recognition of immense opportunity for casual dining concepts in East Africa, spurred, among other things, by population growth and increased urbanization. “We are excited to partner with ECP, one of the most experienced investors in this sector and market,” Sagi Vaknin, Managing Director at Artcaffé said. “With ECP’s support, we are looking to bring an exceptional dining experience closer to our customers with many more stores, and into their homes with an expanded delivery offering and network. “The company’s position as a large tax payer, employer and driver of local supply chain growth with a focus on high international standards is expected to continue its positive impact on local economy.” Virginia Mbiriri, Head of Human Resource at Artcaffé noted that the company’s growth has continued to have a great impact on employment in Kenya, with 1,300 people already employed by the company. With the new investment to lead to the opening of new stores, Mbiriri expects more people to be employed at a rate of around 40 new hires per new store opening. When ECP invested in Java House Group in 2012, the coffee chain had 17 stores, but at exit in 2017, the Group had grown to 55 stores. Artcaffé opened its first café in 2008 and now manages 26 stores throughout Nairobi, Kenya’s capital city. The chain is known for its warm, vibrant, and diverse dining locations that are relaxed yet modern and that help define the increasingly cosmopolitan Kenyan dining experience. Paul Maasdorp, Managing Director at ECP stated that Artcaffé is an iconic Kenyan brand that has become synonymous with best-in-class service, excellent coffee, food, and baked goods. He added that ECP’s investment will help Artcaffé bring this experience to more customers.