Barely three months after South Africa legalised cannabis in the country, the country hosts a cannabis expo, a first in Africa, surprisingly without a single cannabis plant. In September, South Africa’s Constitutional Court legalised the use of cannabis for adults in private places, saying the ban on the use of cannabis at home was against the constitutional right to privacy. Although the plant, which is used to make psychoactive drugs, is now legal, it is still illegal to deal or smoke the plant in public spaces. With this caveat and the absence of cannabis at the four-day expo, which held in South Africa’s capital city, Pretoria on Thursday 13 December, one cannot help but wonder if the country is truly ready for the cannabis industry. When the Constitutional Court gave its landmark ruling, pro-cannabis activists cheered and chanted “Weed is free now”, but is it? To accommodate cannabis at the expo, exhibitors like Andre Kruger, whose company Sombrero Hydroponics has an increase in his customer inquiries since the legalisation, decided to add a bit of creativity to his exhibition. Kruger in his indoor growing tent, which was decorated with ultra-modern lighting and fittings for a high-tech hydroponic irrigation system, displayed two artificial poinsettias as stand-ins. According to Kruger, “People just feel more comfortable now, because they don’t have this added thought in the back of their mind thinking, What if the cops stop at my house? Adding that people are coming out of the closet, similar to what his tent is aiming to achieve. A pro-cannabis activist, Steven Thapelo Khundu, who was obviously displeased with the absence of the plant at the expo, began handing out cannabis buds from a plastic bag at the entrance of the expo, encouraging attendees to bring them inside. “Free Ganga Free! Free Ganga Free!” he shouted till security officials, who seemed offended by his antics forcibly removed him from the event. Itumeleng Tau, a two-decade cannabis grower hopes to bring his business out of the shadows. The expo was an important first step, he said, as he likened the absence of cannabis at the expo to a party without music “it’s like we came to a party but there’s no music.”