Fintechs in Nigeria are ending 2018 on a good note. From awards to huge investments from both local and international investors, fintechs in Africa’s largest economy couldn’t have asked for a better year. Mines closed a Series A round of $13 million. Paystack raised $8 million in Series A funding. OneFi secured credit rating from leading emerging market focused ratings agency Global Credit Rating Co. (GCR). These happened in 2018. However, with the Central Bank of Nigeria (CBN) revising the Licensing Regime for finance providers and fintech platforms in the country, regulation is around the corner and 2019 is the year CBN is expected to release new guidelines as regards fintechs. This might go in two ways: open up more opportunities for fintechs and make them stronger to compete globally or stifle innovation and make it more difficult for fintechs to operate. TheNerve Africa spoke with some fintech companies on how their companies fared in 2018 and their outlook for 2019. PiggyBankNG “2018 has been a year of growth for us at Piggybank.ng, we have seen growth across [different] metrics and we have learnt so much about our product and our users,” said Odunayo Eweniyi, Co-founder & COO of PiggyBankNG. “In 2019, we are most looking forward to following up on the product direction and new ideas that we have learnt from 2018. We want to improve upon our product offerings and ramp up user acquisition. Regulatory-wise, the best course of action, we think, is to keep working while trying to work with the CBN to craft favorable regulation.” Mines Nigeria “2018 has been a great year for growth in fintech, specifically technology-driven lending to address the cost and speed of loan initiation,” said Adia Sowho, Managing Director of Mines Nigeria. “We expect much more growth in 2019, as well as development of the new Payment Service Bank regulation.” Paystack “2018 was a landmark year for Paystack. In Q2 0218, we processed over 25 percent of all online card transactions in Nigeria, and in October 2018 we announced a major transaction milestone, processing over N10 billion (~$27.5 million) every month for businesses in Nigeria. At the beginning of the year we supported two payment channels (payments via card, and via bank account),” said Shola Akinlade Paystack’s CEO & Co-Founder. “At year’s end, we now enable payment via 5 payment channels (card, bank account, USSD, mobile money and QR code). In November 2018, we processed payment for customers from every single country and continent in the world except Antartica. Our team grew as well, from about 20 people, to over 50 people. Finally, we welcomed new investors – Visa and Stripe – as part of our $8 million Series A round of funding. “Our outlook for 2019 is positive. Many of our merchants are seeing double-digit growth, and we expect that trend to continue. We’re also excited to make landfall in multiple additional African countries and announce a long roadmap of “first on the continent” product enhancements. Regardless of what 2019 may bring, we’re confident that we have both the team and the resources to make good on our mission to amplify commerce across the continent.”