Following the passing of the 2010 constitution, the Central Bank of Kenya (CBK) recently launched its new coins but remains mum about the release of the controversial new generation banknotes. “The motifs and design elements on currencies present a unique way of recording history, celebrating our country’s diverse culture and our natural environment,” President Uhuru Kenyatta said when he unveiled the new coins. “The new generation coins continue the tradition of depicting an aspect that best describes our country,” he said further. The 2010 constitution says that Kenyan currency cannot bear the image of past leaders but images of wildlife and nature. This is because Kenyans want to prevent the glorification of political leaders. As a result of this, the images on the new Sh1, Sh5, Sh10 and Sh20 coins were replaced with images of giraffe, rhino, lion and elephant, respectively instead of the portraits of former presidents. The new images on the currency represent Kenya’s famous wildlife which has been a major tourist attraction to the country. It also presents the celebration of Kenya’s culture and history. According to a research, one in every 10 Kenyans in formal employment works in the wildlife tourism sector and wildlife tourism contributes about 14 percent to the country’s GDP.  Kenya is also expected to change the features of its long-awaited banknotes in circulation that have the images of its former Presidents Jomo Kenyatta, Daniel Arap Moi and Mwai Kibaki. The new notes are also going to be new generational notes which will enable the visually-impaired to use them. The controversy  surrounding the new banknotes The whole issue started when Activist Okiya Omtatah challenged the November 30, 2017 award of the lucrative tender to British security printer, De La Rue on grounds that the procurement process was in favour of the British firm. Omtatah argued that De La Rue did not qualify for a 15 percent margin of preference as the firm was not a preferred supplier under Kenyan law. In a high court judgment delivered by Justice Odunga with regards to the case filed by Omtatah, CBK was ordered to evaluate the bids afresh. Following the verdict by the High court, CBK appealed the cancellation of the contract. Following the appeal, in October, an appeal court verdict gave CBK and De La Rue the nod to go ahead and produce the new banknotes thereby overruling the High Court verdict, which cancelled the tender. Omtatah has again filed another notice at the Supreme Court insisting that De La Rue’s bid did not meet the requirements of the law. It is worthy to note that De La Rue has always been in charge of printing Kenya’s new notes until the contract was awarded to UK firm, Bradbury Wilkinson, who printed the notes only between 1966 and 1985. Last year, De La Rue beat three other European banknote printing firms, Germany’s Giesecke & Devrient, Sweden’s Crane Currency and a French firm, Oberthur Fiduciaire to a successful bid for the currency contract. These delays due to court cases have led to an increase in the cost of producing the new generation notes increased from an initial Sh10 billion to about Sh15 billion.  The cost also increased due to the inclusion of the coat of varnish, which will help reduce wear and tear and prolong the currencies circulation life.