London-listed energy company, Wentworth Resources’ dream of becoming a mid-tier, African focused Exploration and Production company (E&P) has been cut short after it announced its exit from Mozambique on Monday 17 December. Effective April 2019, the company would relinquish its Tembo block in Mozambique ahead of the end of the current appraisal term on 15 June 2019. Wentworth also plans to totally exit Mozambique, shutting down activities in the Muxara and Palma camps to enable it to focus on its core Mnazi Bay asset in Tanzania. “We have now completed a thorough technical and commercial review of the company’s asset portfolio and determined that our Tembo asset does not provide us with suitable monetisation solutions in keeping with our material growth mandate,” Wentworth’s chief executive, Eskil Jersing, said. Relinquishing the Tembo block would release Wentworth from any further appraisal work programme obligations because it does not foresee any material costs ahead. Prior to a name change in 2010, Wentworth Resources Limited was known as Artumas Group. The company operated in Tanzania and Mozambique, exporting natural gas and commercializing local gas initiatives in Tanzania, while exploring hydrocarbon in Mozambique. The Tembo Block, which has an area of approximately 2,500 km2 is in northeastern Mozambique, approximately 2,598 km north of Maputo and 120 km southwest of the Mnazi Bay field, in the onshore Rovuma Basin.  The block is operated by Wentworth Resources (85 percent) with Empresa Nacional de Hidrocarbonetos (“ENH”; 15 percent) as partner. “We have appreciated the excellent relationships to date with ENH, the National Oil Company of Mozambique, and INP, the National Regulator, and will work hard to ensure an efficient and smooth transition period for all stakeholders,” Jersing said. “Our work both to maximise the potential of Mnazi Bay and to identify M&A opportunities to add material value continues apace and we look forward to updating shareholders on our progress in due course.”