Zambia plans to increase mining royalties in 2019 in other to reduce its budget deficit, a move that could see Africa’s second-biggest copper producer priced out of the global mining market and may result in losses for some Zambian miners. In July BMI Research, a unit of the Fitch Group forecast a nine-year positive outlook for Zambia. BMI forecast Zambia’s refined copper production to increase from 582 kilotonnes (kt) in 2018 to 865 kt in 2027, averaging a solid production growth of 4.5 percent, the fastest of any major global producer bar India. As a result, BMI expects Zambia to jump from the tenth largest refined copper producer in the world to eighth largest over the same period. However, the country’s Chamber of Mines hold a different position, especially with the proposed increase in mining royalties expected to take effect from 1 January 2019. Zambia’s local mining body does not see a positive outlook as it thinks that the country is pricing itself out of the global mining market. Zambia Chamber of Mines President, Goodwell Mateyo also forecast that “some mines would become loss-making as a result of the Zambian government’s plans to impose new mining duties and increase royalties to bring down mounting debt.” The effect of the royalty increase could be so drastic that an industry lobby group in the country noted that the changes could lead to more than 21,000 job losses and operators cutting $500 million in capital spending over the next three years. Contained in Zambia’s 2019 budget that was delivered on 28 September 2018 to the National Assembly, is the country’s plans to make a miners’ tax change, the 10th tax change miners have faced in the past 16 years. With these changes, the royalty rate will rise by 1.5 percentage points across the board from the current tax rates that range from 4 percent to 6 percent, depending on copper price. A 5 percent import duty for copper and cobalt concentrates were also introduced. The government also plans to replace Value Added Tax (VAT) with a non-refundable sales tax and this will impact mining companies that are owed hundreds of millions of dollars in VAT refund arrears. As soon as the mining budget was discussed on 28 September, shares of First Quantum Minerals Ltd., Africa’s largest copper producer, fell as much as 5.2 percent. The price of copper which previously traded at $6,241 a tonne on the London Metal Exchange, fell as much as 5.2 percent. Should the proposed increases take effect on 1 January, members of the Chamber of Mines, Glencore Plc, First Quantum Minerals Ltd., Vedanta Resources Plc and Barrick Gold Corp. and the likes, will be left with no choice than to scale back substantially on their operations, they told Bloomberg. This would take a toll on the profits of the miners.