Education, according to Nelson Mandela, is the most powerful weapon a person can use to change the world but it is also the most powerful weapon to change your bank account. Education creates a bridge as well as a wall; one so high that it is five times visible in the pay gap, especially among women. According to a World Bank report titled Educating Girls and Ending Child Marriage: A Priority for Africa, African women with partial or completed primary education earn 19 to 30 percent more than those with no education at all. Secondary education enables women to earn two times more than women without qualifications, while women with tertiary education, earn almost five times as much as those with no education. In developing economies, 75 percent of women are informally employed with fewer chances of having employment contracts and are often not paid enough to escape poverty. The range of informal employment extends from unpaid help provided by family members, the full-time housewife, informal paid labour,  self-employment and small enterprises. According to the World Bank, many of the women in the informal economy forfeited their education for marriage. Child marriage and early childbearing have put a strain on education for the female folk, leading to low
educational attainment for girls and a continued widening of the wage gap that already exists between the men and women. A study shows that the wage gap between women with a tertiary degree and women without a tertiary education degree is greater than the same earnings gap between men and women. Low educational degrees for the females has unescapable potential impacts which include, but is not limited to, lower earnings and standards of living. The benefits from education are much larger at the secondary than at the primary level and much more for tertiary education. The higher the educational attainment, the higher the chances of eliminating child marriage and the better the chances of a decent wage. BRIDGING THE GAP Relative to the domino effect, poverty is expressed in low wages, which is caused by the lack or the furtherance of certain levels of educational certifications which is in turn hindered by early marriage, childbearing and a general lack of opportunity. All these are the barriers that hinder women and to remove the barriers the society needs to go back to the fundamentals. First of which is eliminating the family choices and societal pressures. Described as the double burden syndrome, women take the lion share of domestic responsibilities and this limits their opportunities. At a very tender age, women are tasked with the double burden of balancing education and the primary caregiver responsibilities. Either as a daughter or a mother, the girl child is tasked with taking care of her siblings, parents or even children and most times this is at the detriment of her education. Secondly, education and career sacrifices are usually skewed towards women. The mentality that a woman’s education ends in the kitchen has ruined much education opportunities most women have. At a young age, the lady is made to sacrifice herself like a lamb for her family, after all, she would be whisked away by one man who would dump her in his kitchen. The gender bias has eaten deep into our African society and has limited many cultures from educating their female children thereby preventing these females from reaching their maximum potential, hence the wage disparity.  Impoverished parents often feel they need their girl-child to labour for additional income to help with the gruelling requirements of life and there is the need to put an end to such practices. Little wonder 31 million of the 57 million out-of-school children around the world are girls. Unfortunately, the number is higher still for out-of-school secondary girls. Similarly, two thirds or 493 million of the world’s adult illiterate population are women. Marriage is another huge limiting factor for education. Child brides are very common in African societies and as an adult, it is already difficult to combine marriage and childbearing with education, much less as when a child has to do it. In such scenarios, the education usually suffers. In many other cases, women are forced to dump their educational certifications, which gives them the prospects of a good job with a decent wage for the informal economy because ‘the man works for the money and the woman works for the home.’ Until gender disparity is eliminated and equal educational and labour opportunities are offered to men and women, women will still dominate the informal workforce and the undereducated female will earn five times less than their educated counterparts.