The question of whether the economic development of developing countries is more important than protecting the environment has been around for long. Usually, argument on which to prioritise, in reality, ends in a stalemate. Or who would deny the 67 percent of Tanzanian population without access to electricity, a chance at lighting up their homes? The World Wildlife Fund (WWF) a conservation group has been a critic of Tanzania’s plan to build a $3 billion hydroelectric plant in a UNESCO world heritage site due to concerns about the impact on wildlife and “the livelihoods of the over 200,000 people who depend on the environment”. The site of the new plant is known for its elephants, black rhinos and giraffes. The reserve covers 50,000 square km and is one of the largest protected areas in Africa, according to UNESCO, hence the push back by WWF. Tanzania’s President John Magufuli is not one to back down and has pushed for the project to start. A contract with Egyptian companies El Sewedy Electric Co and Arab Contractors was announced Wednesday. They are to build the hydroelectric plant, which will more than double Tanzania’s power generation capacity. Energy Minister Medard Kalemani said that the plant will have an installed capacity of 2,115 megawatts. President Magufuli said the project will be funded with taxes. “When we asked for financing for this project, the lenders refused to give us money but thanks to improved tax collection, we are able to finance this project using our own resources,” Magufuli said. Tanzania’s monthly tax revenue increased to an average of 1.3 trillion shillings ($566 million) per month under Magafuli from 850 billion before he came to power in late 2015, Magufuli said. He also said that Tanzania had allocated 32.5 percent of its land mass to conservation, hence no need to worry so much about the impact of the project. “The dam will become a major source of water and the cheap electricity to be produced from the dam will reduce the number of people who cut trees for firewood,” he said.