Tony Elumelu led Heirs Holding has secured a $60 million credit facility from the African Export-Import Bank (Afreximbank). This deal signed on Tuesday at the ongoing first ever Intra-African Trade Fair (IATF) in the continent, comes a year after the company secured a $100 million credit facility from Afreximbank. Afreximbank President Prof. Benedict Oramah welcomed the continuing strong relations with Heirs Holdings and commended its potential role in addressing some of the fundamental challenges that have affected the power and energy sectors in Africa. Heirs Holdings, which has investments across Africa in the financial services, resources, real estate and hospitality and power sectors, plans to deploy the facilities to further support its power, and oil and gas strategy, as it positions itself as an African leader in integrated natural resources. The company also said that the proceeds of the facilities will support the Group’s vision of creating a dynamic resource-based division, which will focus on ensuring that value creation occurs on the African continent. “The Bank continues to play a critical role in the economic and social development of the continent. Together, we illustrate that Africa can create world-class institutions, which are capable of successfully making the long-term investments necessary for Africa’s economic transformation and catalyze the enabling environment that will unleash Africa’s potential,” Tony Elumelu said while expressing his delight in partnering with Afreximbank. Apart from Heirs Holdings, Egypt’s El Sewedy Electric Company also announced signing a $500 million financing loan with African Export-Import Bank (Afreximbank), on the sidelines of the Intra-African Trade Fair. The IATF, organized by Afreximbank, in collaboration with the African Union, and hosted by the Government of Egypt, will last until 17 December 2018 and is expected to attract about 70,000 visitors. Transactions worth about $25 billion are expected to be concluded at the IATF which has almost 1,100 registered exhibitors from 42 countries. What you should know about Afreximbank

Afreximbank is the foremost Pan-African multilateral financial institution devoted to financing and promoting African trade.

It was established under two basic constitutive instruments: the agreement signed by the member states and multilateral organizations, which gives the bank the status of an international multilateral organization; and the Charter, which governs its corporate structure and operations.

The bank was established in October 1993 by African governments, African private and institutional investors, and non-African investors. Afreximbank commenced operations on 30 September 1994, following the signature of a headquarters agreement with the host government in August 1994. Since 1994, it has approved more than $51 billion in credit facilities for African businesses, including about $10.3 billion in 2016.

The bank is based in Cairo, Egypt and it is rated BBB+ (GCR), Baa1 (Moody’s), and BBB- (Fitch) and had total assets of $9.4 billion as at April 30, 2016.

Countries currently on the list of Afreximbank participating and shareholding states include Angola, Benin, Botswana, Burkina Faso, Burundi, Cameroon, Cape Verde, Central African Republic, Chad, Comoros, Côte d’Ivoire, Democratic Republic of Congo, Djibouti, Egypt, Ethiopia, Gabon, Gambia, Ghana, Guinea, Guinea Bissau, Kenya, and Lesotho. Others are Liberia, Madagascar, Malawi, Mali, Mauritania, Mauritius, Morocco, Mozambique, Namibia, Niger, Nigeria, Republic of Congo, Rwanda, Senegal, Seychelles, Sierra Leone, Sao Tome and Principe, South Africa, South Sudan, Sudan, Tanzania, Togo, Tunisia, Uganda, Zambia and Zimbabwe.