Despite the influx of mobile banking and online shopping platforms, Africa is yet to fully embrace online shopping as the continent still lags behind the 2018 United Nations Conference on Trade and Development’s (UNCTAD) Business to consumer (B2C) E-commerce Index discovers. UNCTAD e-commerce index measures an economy’s preparedness to support online shopping. In its 2018 edition, the E-commerce index covered 151 economies, an additional seven countries from its 2017 edition. The index has a caveat for African countries which states that having an account is not necessarily considered due to the popularity of cash on delivery for e-commerce in the continent. Of the 44 African countries surveyed, Mauritius which ranked 55 on the index topped the list of African countries that have considerably shown readiness to shop online. Below it in second and third place is Nigeria and South Africa respectively.  Unlike the European Union, where 68 percent of Internet users made an online purchase in 2017, the average purchase made online in Africa only averaged 13 percent in 2017. This setback is mainly due to low internet penetration. “Africa trails behind the rest of the world in its preparedness to engage in and benefit from the digital economy. Three-quarters of the African population is yet to start using the Internet,” the report stated. UNCTAD estimates that there were at least 21 million online shoppers in Africa last year, less than 2 percent of the world total and Nigeria, South Africa and Kenya accounted for almost half the online shopping population. Despite these three populous countries carrying the weight of the continent, the number of African online shoppers has surged annually by 18 percent since 2014, faster than the world average growth rate of 12 percent and this is telling on its Foreign Direct Investment (FDI). From the numbers, a competitive e-commerce ecosystem made several top non-African developing countries on the index witness inflows of FDI into their e-commerce sectors in 2017, amounting to at least $1.7 billion. The United Arab Emirates which ranked fourth because of the high number of online shoppers in the country, attracted online retailer Amazon who purchased souq.com for $583 million in May 2017. In that same year, construction of the first dedicated e-commerce park in the Middle East and North Africa, Dubai CommerCity commenced. The CommerCity cost $735 million. Malaysia which ranked fifth on the index has one of the highest proportions of B2C sales to GDP in the world. In 2017, over a third of the population made an online purchase, leading to a government partnership with Chinese e-commerce company, Alibaba, to establish a dedicated e-commerce technology park, Digital Free Trade Zone, the first such facility in South East Asia.  As at 2017, the B2C e-commerce market in Africa was worth about $5.7 billion, less than 0.5 percent of GDP. To grow e-commerce, Africa needs to improve access to the Internet and work on gaining the trust of existing users, many who are still skeptical about online shopping.  Forecasting what a future with increased online shoppers would look like, the report notes that, if the ratio of online shoppers to Internet users in the region was increased to 50 percent, an additional 77 million online shoppers would be added and the estimated B2C revenue would more than double. This is based on the assumption that the average annual spend was halved.  