China’s plan to increase its African engagement in 2019 has started early, as the Asian country is demanding diamonds and oil drilling rights as payment for printing a new currency for Zimbabwe, according to Spotlight Zimbabwe. In exchange for a Chinese-printed currency and a new opulent capital city in Mount Hampden, the Republic of China is asking for diamonds and oil drilling rights, given that Zimbabwe does not have a currency. “China has demanded oil rights and exclusive access to Zimbabwe’s diamonds in Marange, without having to cede ownership of those assets to locals under the indigenization threshold,” local online media publication Spotlight Zimbabwe quoted an unnamed Chinese envoy to have said. The envoy reportedly added that the currency is already being printed, although the date of introduction is still a secret. In September 2018, Finance Minister Mthuli Ncube stated that with time, the government would have to bring back the Zimbabwe domestic currency, but pending when it happens, the US dollar should become the country’s core currency. “It’s not surprising that the US dollar is now in short supply because people are not banking them. So, the immediate course of action is to remove the bond notes and then let the US dollar become the core currency,” he stated.  By December, Mthuli who confirmed that the multi-currency system is not working announced that “We are slowly creating the right environment for currency reform. When we are ready, we will announce what we are doing.” Meanwhile, in 2017, when President Emmerson Mnangagwa was still Zimbabwe’s vice president stated that the government was building diamond and gold reserves to back the local currency upon its re-introduction in future. “We are building reserves of gold and diamonds which if they reach a certain level I will not tell you here, it will then allow us to introduce our own currency that will be backed by those minerals. I am not at liberty to disclose to you the level that we want those minerals to reach before they can back our own currency,” he stated. Hyperinflation in Zimbabwe rose as high as 500 billion percent in 2008, forcing the country to abandon its currency and adopt the US dollar as its principal means of exchange. In 2015, 250 trillion Zimbabwean dollars exchanged for only $1 and there was an acute shortage of cash. By 2016, the country introduced bond notes as a way of easing acute shortages of cash, but this did not solve the shortages, rather, it led to a thriving black market. Currently, Zimbabweans transact with US dollars, which is supplemented with bond notes. The relationship between Zimbabwe and China dates as far back as Zimbabwe’s independence in 1980. However, China’s hunger for oil and diamonds began in 2009 when the country began the process to formalise a deal which gives the country access to Zimbabwe’s oil and gas exploration. According to the unnamed diplomat, who spoke to online media publication Spotlight, ” China is in desperate need to secure oil for future energy security, and the 2009 deal now formalised, gives the country oil and gas exploration rights covering millions of acres of land on the Zambezi Valley.” Currently, China is Zimbabwe’s second largest trading partner. In 2016, trade between the two countries amounted to $1.1 billion. In Zimbabwe, China has mineral concessions for gold, platinum, lithium, aluminium, zinc and copper. As of 2006, China had mining deals worth £700 million with Zimbabwe. The Asian powerhouse also has quite a number of infrastructural projects in Zimbabwe, through its construction firms, including Zimbabwe’s $100 million  National Defence College and a 650-seat parliament in Harare. The new Zimbabwean dollar is expected to be launched in early 2020, while the proposed new capital city is expected to be operational after the new Chinese-funded parliament in Mt Hampden city is completed in 2021.