Over the weekend, it was reported that Safaricom’s M-Pesa systems went off without prior warning, inconveniencing millions of Kenyans who have become very reliant on M-Pesa. The outage occurred on the evening of 8 December and morning of 9 and 10 December 2018. According to a statement issued by Safaricom, the hitch was due to a slow database response, which resulted in a reduction in the number of transactions being processed, as transactions had to be delayed. This led to the queuing of incoming transactions and a delay in responses to customers. Update on M-PESA outage. #NaweKilaWakati pic.twitter.com/nT3pkD1RCZ — Safaricom PLC (@SafaricomPLC) December 9, 2018  However, in reaction to this hitch the Cabinet Secretary of Kenya’s Information, Communications and Technology, Joe Mucheru instructed the Communications Authority of Kenya (CA) to work with the Central Bank of Kenya (CBK) to establish the causes of the outages and a report that will include measures that Safaricom should put in place to ensure that this does not happen again. The mobile money platform had similar issues in April and July last year which also put the company under regulatory pressure. M-Pesa was launched in 2007 to originally allow microfinance-loan repayments to be made by phone, thereby reducing the costs of handling cash and making possible lower interest rates. The platform has now revolutionized the way people save, spend, and send money. M-Pesa now controls 81 percent of the mobile money market and as of June 2017, it had about 22.6 million subscribers. It has also been cited as the key factor behind the rapid increase in Kenya’s financial inclusion, which has risen from 26.7 percent in 2006 to 75.3 percent in 2016. A recent report by GSMA Intelligence reveals that Kenya has the highest rate of mobile money penetration in East Africa, which stands at 59 percent and the 10th highest in sub-Saharan Africa. M-Pesa records 17 million transactions daily and has over 23 million monthly active users. Since M-Pesa records millions of transactions daily, the outage was estimated to have cost the economy billions of shillings. Businesses of M-Pesa agents were stalled, people got stranded while some had to leave the malls without anything after shopping for hours. The outage raises questions about the reliability of M-Pesa, which millions of Kenyans have come to adopt as their major channel of transaction. It also makes the case for more Kenyans to exploit alternatives such as Equity Group’s Equitel, Telkom Kenya’s T-Kash and Airtel money rather than relying solely on M-Pesa.