Egypt will on the 8th and 9th of December 2018 play host to the third edition of one of the largest business and investment fora in Africa. The Africa 2018 themed “Bold Leadership and Collective Commitment: Advancing Intra-African Investments” is scheduled to take place at the Maritim Jolie Ville International Congress Center, Sharm El Sheikh Egypt, building on the success of the 2017 edition which was attended by 2,000 participants from 75 countries and 600 companies from the public and private sectors. “The Forum aims to improve intra-African trade and investment for the benefit for all citizens on this continent. Egypt’s comprehensive socio-economic reform programme to transform our country continues to progress alongside efforts to advancing Africa’s sustainable development through greater cross-border business among our nations,” said Dr Sahar Nasr, Egypt’s Minister of Investment and International Cooperation. What you need to know about the Forum The Africa 2018 Forum is an international, landmark event hosted under the High Patronage of H.E. Abdel Fattah Al Sisi, President of the Arab Republic of Egypt, aiming to promote greater economic integration through increased investment flows into Africa. The forum which is organised by the  Ministry of Investment and International Cooperation of Egypt and COMESA Regional Investment Agency will see prominent African and international political and business leaders gather to discuss ways of enhancing pan-African trade and investment, with a major focus on the role of the private sector. Why the event is important for Africa The Africa 2018 comes at the time when the continent signed the African Continental Free Trade Agreement which is expected to pave way for a liberalized market for goods and services across the continent. In light of this, the Forum will be a platform to advance greater regional integration and greater intra-African private sector collaboration and investments, amid a rapidly changing global economic and technological environment. This event will also help shape private sector priorities for the coming year. It will also enable policymakers and the private sector to collaborate more closely and take tough decisions to advance and fast-track development across the continent.

The forum will also have a day focused on women and young entrepreneurs across the continent. It will look at the role of women in helping define the continental priorities in a gathering called Women Empowering Africa. Women driving change across the continent will be gathered to agree on clear action points. This will ensure that they have a stronger voice and more significant presence at the decision-making table, which includes government and the boardroom. According to the organisers, communiqué will be presented to the heads of state present highlighting their priority concerns and aspirations. During the Young Entrepreneurs Day (YED), the event will give the continent’s rising stars the opportunity to meet a diverse set of investors as well as to hone their skills in some workshops tailored by specialist consultancies and leaders in their field. According to the organisers, five African heads of State have already confirmed their participation including the newly elected Zimbabwean President, Emmerson Mnangagwa, and President Mahamadou Issoufou of Niger, who has been leading the drive to get commitments from other African heads of State to sign the African Continental Free Trade Agreement (AfCFTA). The speakers will lead discussions around various areas which includes Energy, Finance, Investment, Media, Gender equality, Entrepreneurship and Technology.