On Friday 21 December, the South African government released a draft Expropriation Bill, outlining the circumstances under which the state can take land from owners without having to pay compensation fee, for public comment. The draft, which was submitted to the parliament, stated that it may be just and equitable for no compensation to be paid where land is expropriated in the interest of the public, meaning that an expropriating authority may have the right to use property temporarily when urgently required for a period not exceeding 12 months. A person’s land or property can be taken without pay if it is occupied or used by a labour tenant, if it belongs to a state-owned enterprise or has been abandoned by the owner. The bill also states that a property can be expropriated when the market value of the land is equal or less than the present value of direct state investment. For clarification, the bill explains that property is not limited to land and that the state must take reasonable legislative and other measures, within its available resources, to foster conditions which enable citizens to gain access to land on an equitable basis. However, before the government begins any action, the public has been granted 60 days to submit written comments on the bill to the department of public works.  South Africa’s President Cyril Ramaphosa has continued to reiterate his government’s commitment to land reforms in the country. “This government is resolute in our commitment to returning the land in an orderly and lawful manner. We shall not allow illegal land occupations,” he had earlier stated. To accommodate the ongoing land reforms, a motion to amend parts of South Africa’s constitution to allow confiscation of land without compensation was moved by radical Economic Freedom Fighters (EFF) party leader Julius Malema, championed by South Africa’s president, Cyril Ramaphosa and supported by the ruling African National Congress (ANC).  After 241 votes were counted in favour of amending the constitution as against 83 who voted against, the country’s National Assembly and National Council of Provinces (NCOP) approved the constitutional amendment. The present draft is the third version of the bill since it was first released in 2008.