Recently, the  African Union Commission and the African Civil Aviation Commission, which is the executing agency of the Single African Air Transport Market (SAATM)  announced that 13 African countries would sign the implementation of the open skies agreement at the International Civil Aviation Organisation’s Air Services Negotiations conference. However, at the end of the conference, only three countries signed the agreement, stalling the achievement of the goal set by the African leaders. In order to liberalise the African aviation industry, the ministers in charge of civil aviation of 40 African states in 1988, met at Yamoussoukro, Côte d’Ivoire, and announced a new African Air Transport Policy also known as the African Open Air Policy. The policy is aimed at integrating African carriers, gradually eliminating traffic rights, and reducing tariffs. Although a decision was not reached, the meeting was named the Yamoussoukro Declaration. As a follow up to this meeting, ministers from the same 40 countries gathered in Côte d’Ivoire in 1999 and agreed on the declaration. However, it did not become fully binding until 2002 when it was endorsed by the African Union. In line with the Yamoussoukro declaration, 26 African countries in May expressed commitments in the establishment of the SAATM but 10 countries failed to sign the implementation framework. Currently, SAATM is operational in 14 countries, mostly in West Africa. Togo, for instance, has operationalised the treaty by signing agreements with other countries where cross-border flights are now treated as domestic flights in the region. The ten countries that are yet to sign the implementation of this agreement are Chad, Egypt, Gabon, Kenya, Lesotho, Mozambique, Nigeria, South Africa, Swaziland and Zimbabwe. Their reasons range from the need for consultations and alignment of the country’s laws to accommodate this change, to impact of international carriers on their domestic market. Others are terms and conditions for foreign carriers operating within domestic airspace, amendments of bilateral air service agreements and a new multilateral air service agreement for international carriers. Concerns about the agreement The Chief Executive Officer of Kenya Airways, Sebastian Mikosz accused Ethiopia of protectionism and argued that the implementation of the open skies policy should ensure that countries offer a level playing field for everyone on board. According to East African online news platform, Mikosz said that “Ethiopian Airlines do not allow more operators into their country. This protectionism is harmful to the expected establishment of a single aviation market across the continent. It is easier to expand where there is no protectionism. We cannot, however, compete on the same playing field because we have different models.” However,  Mikosz also called for a cautious approach in the implementation of the single sky treaty, noting that it only benefits countries that are commited to the SAATM. IATA’s special envoy to Africa for aero-political affairs,  Raphael Kuuchi also said that while the heads of state approved the regulatory framework for SAATM, their countries are yet to agree on a dispute settlement mechanism. The African Union Commission is of the opinion that the implementation of the open skies policy will pave way for its other flagship projects such as the African Passport and the free movement of people.