The President of Nigeria, Muhammadu Buhari on Wednesday 12 December 2018, presented the 2019 budget to the National Assembly for consideration and passage. The N8.73 trillion 2019 budget is lower than the 2018 budget of N9.1 trillion. The President’s budget presentation comes as Nigeria’s statistics bureau released figures showing that unemployment has increased in the country. According to the president, the budget has been prepared based on five assumptions, including a GDP growth rate of 3.01 percent and inflation rate of 9.98 percent. However, most of the assumptions seem unrealistic, considering trends and global economic outlook. Although, the president argued that these were taken into consideration, risks remain. Crude Oil One of President Buhari’s five assumptions is that oil sells at $60 per barrel in 2019. Oil currently sell below $60, with Brent closing at $57.24 on Wednesday and WTI crude at $47.21, falling below $50 per barrel for the first time in over a year. Also, forecasts do not paint a good picture of 2019. According to the Short-term Energy Outlook by the U.S. Energy Information Administration, global crude oil prices will average $61 per barrel in 2019. This is down $11 from the agency’s $72 a barrel forecast just weeks ago. Although, several bodies expect crude to fare better, with world’s biggest exporter of the black gold estimating an average price of about $80 a barrel in 2019, the only hope for a price rebound is the planned output cut by OPEC. Even that may not have any significant impact on prices if the cartel loses the support of countries like Russia. With the attendant risks, a benchmark of $60 per barrel for Nigeria may be too ambitious, especially considering the country’s debt burden, huge recurrent expenditure and the unlikelihood of maintaining a daily production of 2.3 million barrels per day, another assumption on which President Buhari’s budget was based. The last time Nigeria produced crude of more than 2.3 million barrels a day was in January 2015. Yet, following its last meeting, OPEC announced planned cuts in 2019, which will take some 40,000 barrels off Nigeria’s production. More so, 2019 is an election year, heightening risks of tension in key oil producing areas. However, the Nigerian government has to use ambitious numbers like this, as oil remains the country’s major revenue source and foreign exchange earner. More than ever before, Nigeria needs to reduce its dependence on oil. A bad 2019 for oil might push the country back into recession. An exchange rate of N305/US$ Nigeria’s forex reserves continue to drop as the Central Bank of Nigeria (CBN) shores up the Nigerian Naira to ensure a stable Foreign Exchange market. The apex bank has spent a total of $11.3 billion in foreign exchange interventions in the various segments of the interbank market from January to December 2018. However, according to available data, the CBN might not be able to intervene so much in the forex market next year, as a recent figure released by the CBN showed that Nigeria’s external reserves have fallen to $42.6 billion from a peak of $48 billion recorded in July. This fall is largely due to foreign investors pulling back from the Nigerian market and the increase in demand at the foreign exchange market. As at today, the exchange rate on the parallel market stands at N365/US$ and this is expected to fall further as the election draws closer. It is also worthy to note that a continuous fall in global oil price will have an effect on the naira. As things stand, the Nigerian government is planning its 2019 budget based on a false value of the country’s currency. With economic factors that influence the value of currencies not at their best levels in recent times, Nigeria’s currency could remain weak for the foreseeable future. Unemployment According to the National Bureau of Statistics (NBS), unemployment rate increased from 18.8 percent in Q3 2017 to 23.1 percent in Q3 2018. With economic growth rate lower than the country’s population growth rate, unemployment will continue to rise, as well as poverty. Nigeria’s population should be to the country’s advantage. Indeed, the country is an important market for several businesses that exploit the opportunities Nigeria’s high population offers. However, with poor infrastructure and lack of policies encouraging output growth, Nigeria has not efficiently exploited its huge population. Instead, it has become a burden, with the pace of development slower than population growth. Available infrastructure and utility are becoming insufficient for citizens. Only 5.2 percent of the proposed budget was earmarked for education. Nigeria is currently in a bad place economically and the just presented budget does not show there is a solid plan to save the country. If anything, it reinforces the issues the country has had for years now: a huge wage bill and excessive borrowing to develop infrastructure which hardly ever leads to economic growth.