Kenya’s Bamburi Cement recently warned its investors that it expects the 2018 full-year earnings of the Group to decrease by more than 25 percent, compared with the year ended December 31, 2017, as cement makers in East Africa continue to endure dwindling profits. “While the final 2018 financial results will be announced in the first quarter of 2019, the board of directors wishes to inform the shareholders of the company and potential investors that, based on the preliminary assessment on the unaudited consolidated management accounts, the 2018 full-year earnings of the group are expected to decrease by more than 25 percent compared with the year ended December 31, 2017,” the Lafarge-owned cement maker said in a statement. The company also issued a similar warning in 2017 when its profit before tax declined to Ksh4.1 billion from the 2016 figure of Ksh8.3 billion. The group attributed the loss to dividend payments, capacity expansions in both Kenya and Uganda, drought and prolonged election period which reduced construction activity in the region. Apart from Bamburi, other manufacturers facing the same issue include Athi River Mining, which is under administration that is intended to shield it from creditors and offer it a lifeline. East African Cement Company is also at the point of total collapse as the company is hoping to get cash through asset sales of land to enable it to balance its books. Kenya’s ARM Cement is under administration after reporting a loss of KSh6.5 billion ($64.56 million) in 2017. Tanzanian cement firms are also reporting fall in their margins. Why the fortunes of East African Cement makers are dwindling Cement demand in Kenya declined in 2017 and this significantly affected the industry. There is a slowdown in the construction of buildings and other infrastructure due to the government ’s decision to implement legislation that imposed controls on lending rates by banks. Owing to this, banks have turned their backs on lending to the real estate industry, with several projects now abandoned. A price war waged by new private companies such as National Cement, Mombasa Cement and Savannah Cement also affected the industry where supply now outstrips demand. In Tanzania, the cement industry was disrupted by the entry of Dangote Cement, unsettling big players with its discount pricing. Rwanda is also getting a third local cement maker, Prime Cement after it signed a deal with a Danish company FL Smidth in mid last year to build a $70 million plant. Imports from Asian countries have also led to an oversupply within the region which has restrained the market further.  Despite the challenges facing the industry in the region, there seems to be a lot of interest from international investors. Last month, it was reported that Dangote Cement which had indicated interest to enter into the region, was looking to take over Athi River Mining in order to have a strong foothold in the market. Last week, Oman’s largest cement manufacturer, Raysut Cement Company also indicated interest in the same company. Raysut said in a statement that this acquisition will complement its efforts to manufacture clinker in proximity to the markets it supplies in the region, including Tanzania and Uganda. 2019 may be better However, a recent report by Research and Market reveals that the cement industry is expected to witness an upward trend due to support from government initiatives, growing construction and housing projects, and investments by new entrants. This is because Foreign Direct Investment (FDI) in East Africa, which is contributing to the growth of the infrastructure industry in the region, is rising. For instance, the World Bank is financing the road development programme in Ethiopia so as to improve the country’s highway network.  Rwanda is also investing in the development of roads, rail and water transport facilities. In Uganda, there are several projects such as the development of Entebbe International Airport, redesigning of Malaba-Kampala railway route into a standard gauge line, and the upcoming construction of Bukasa port. All these projects will result in a significant demand for cement in the region.