After 62 people died in Somalia over the weekend, following six airstrikes by the United States of America, targeting the al-Shabab extremist group, the country’s mission, Tuesday, announced it was investing at least $900 million in Somalia for humanitarian assistance. A statement issued by the United States Ambassador to Djibouti, Donald Yamamoto, noted that the investment is part of US efforts to create a better tomorrow for Somalis. “The United States is meeting life-saving humanitarian assistance needs; expanding education and healthcare; building institutions, good governance, and justice; creating jobs and advancing economic development; and providing stabilization and security for the people of Somalia,” the statement reads. The jihadist fundamentalist group which began as the armed wing[ of the Islamic Courts Union (ICU), later splintered into several smaller factions after the group was defeated in 2006 by the Transitional Federal Government (TFG) in both Somalia and Ethiopia. Describing themselves as a group waging jihad against the enemies of Islam, al-Shabab has repeatedly attacked hotels and busy intersections in the capital city of Mogadishu with bombs and guns. In 2017, hundreds of people were killed in two different attacks on the capital. Although the United States says the civilians were not harmed, probably because al-Shabab’s attacks have been dominant in Mogadishu and the US airstrikes took place roughly 30 miles northeast of several of the terrorist groups’ attacks, the stringent rules which were supposed to prevent civilian casualties when the US military carries out counterterrorism strikes in Somalia were relaxed when US President, Donald Trump signed a directive declaring parts of Somalia an “area of active hostilities”. This has led many to believe there were civilian casualties which the US is refusing to admit as they did in 2017 and 2016. #US military releases a statement claiming they conducted two drone strikes in #Somalia this week within a 48 hour period killing 62 AL Shabaab fighters but knowing drone strikes are statistically proven to kill civilians 98% of the time, this cannot be independently verified. pic.twitter.com/2JiVteEkut — Halgan Media (@Free_Somaliweyn) December 17, 2018  Locals: US Airstrike Kills Seven Civilians in Southern #SomaliaUS Insists Slain Were All #AlShabaab Militantshttps://t.co/qKKxuNreP5 pic.twitter.com/ATPV0yWp1d — Antiwar.com (@Antiwarcom) August 18, 2017  America’s diplomatic relations with Somalia is visible in the counter-terrorism attacks as well as in aid. The United States has provided Somalia with more than $3 billion in humanitarian aid to address problems relating to drought, famine and refugees.  In 2018 alone, the U.S. has disbursed over $420 million in life-saving humanitarian assistance to the Somalian government. Between 2014 and 2018, America’s airstrikes in Somalia total 109. The U.S. just recently opened permanent diplomatic relations with Somalia on 2 December 2018, 27 years after closing its Embassy in Mogadishu on 5 January 1991.