Managing Director of CDC Group Nick O’Donohoe is impressed with the performance of the larger Nigerian banks in recent times, but he’s not so sure of the “long tail” of smaller banks behind them and thinks investors are wary of these banks. Nigeria’s Diamond Bank falls in the ‘long tail’ category. The UK Development Finance Institution (DFI) is an investor in Nigeria’s top two banks Guaranty Trust Bank and Zenith Bank, as well as Diamond Bank. Although, the DFI has not invested in the Nigerian banking industry in recent years, Nick doesn’t rule out further investment in future. However, if CDC Group is looking to invest again, Diamond Bank might not be on its radar; not the way it currently is. The Nigerian bank has continued its downward spiral in 2018 with no end in sight. Diamond Bank used to be one of the most promising businesses in Nigeria. It came on the scene in 1991 to change the face of banking in the country. It succeeded for a while and innovated like no other. The game changer in the Nigerian banking industry came in 1992 when the Bank introduced the Diamond Integrated Banking System (DIBS), which allowed customers to operate their accounts from any branch of their bank. Before then, withdrawals could only be made from the branch where a customer’s account was domiciled. Pascal Dozie, who founded the bank and grew it, handed over to Alex Otti, whose interest in politics was said to have distracted him in his latter years as Diamond Bank chief executive. Pascal Dozie did everything right until he started believing his Chemist son, Uzoma had a knack for banking. Of course, there is nothing wrong with being a chemist; the immediate past Managing Director and Chief Executive Officer of another Nigerian lender Wema Bank, who saved the bank from going under, like Uzoma Dozie, had his first degree in Chemistry. The difference is that Segun Oloketuyi wanted to work in the financial services sector, training as an accountant at Akintola Williams & Co (Now Deloitte & Touche). Dozie on the other hand only ventured into banking because he needed a job and his father was influential in the banking industry. According to the Money Men story ‘placed’ on Forbes, “Pascal, through his contacts, secured a role for Uzoma at Guaranty Trust Bank, which was the start of the latter’s love affair with banking.” He just had to love banking. His father built a bank which he wanted him to run; he had no choice. The Forbes story reminding people about Pascal’s greatness, which would have been a perfect PR piece on another day, did not do anything for Uzoma’s image. Even if his predecessor made some bad decisions that affected the bank as some people claim, the founder’s son has been in charge since 2014 and it doesn’t look like he has a plan to bring back the glory days of the bank. The bank has continued to depreciate in value, with market capitalisation now at N15 billion and shares at an all time low of N0.65 each. Yet it showed no signs of reducing problematic exposures, as ratings agency Moody’s noted when it downgraded the baseline credit assessment (BCA) of the bank to caa3 from caa1. Moody’s said the bank could get an upgrade if it increases its capital and provisions to cover the bank’s NPLs, while meeting minimum regulatory requirements. Diamond Bank’s NPLs ratio stood at about 40 percent of gross loans as of September 2018 from 42 percent at year-end 2017, and only about 20 percent of the NPL stock is covered by provisions. The bank is now in talks with a multilateral agency to raise medium-term funding over a 5-year period. It said on Friday, that it will also repay a $200 million Eurobond due in May. The bank has also received the approval of the Central Bank of Nigeria “to operate as a
National Bank (subject to conclusion of sale of Diamond Bank UK). This frees up N75 billion ($207 million) for the bank — it only needs a capital base of N25 billion to operate as a national bank — enough to repay the principal on its Eurobond maturing in May. The new channels of funding also support the bank’s denial of a planned merger with another Nigerian lender Access Bank. While Diamond Bank’s plans appear to be taking shape, there are other critical issues that need to be addressed. At a time the bank has obvious corporate governance issues, it does not have a proper board of directors, which should oversee the conduct of the business. Also, the market has not forgotten how the bank’s management cancelled a scheduled conference call for its third quarter results in what looked like an attempt at information management. The Bank has so far only confirmed or denied information that leak to the public, legitimizing worries about its strategy at this crucial period. The management of the bank has a lot of work to do in convincing stakeholders that the bank is headed the right way. One of the ways to do this is to be more open about its plans for the future, including answering important questions such as who will be the managing director and chief executive of the bank going forward. If it’s Uzoma Dozie, it must be because he has a clear and workable plan to save Diamond Bank; hopefully, it is part of the plans already unfolding. For the founder’s son, this is a rare opportunity to prove to everyone that he deserves everything he has gotten, Pascal or not. It is also a time to prove to the patriarch of the Dozie family that his first son is a worthy successor. UPDATE: The market reacted well to news that Diamond Bank is now a national bank, with the shares appreciating 9.23 percent at the early hours of trading on Monday.