The acquisition of Nigeria’s Diamond Bank Plc. by fellow lender Access Bank Plc. will be made public tomorrow. The two banks had earlier denied news of a planned acquisition which broke last month, but our investigations show that the acquisition was never off the table and it will now happen. Recall our 11 December report on how the Managing Director and Chief Executive Officer of Diamond Bank opted for an acquisition of the Bank by Access Bank despite an offer of capital injection by key shareholder Carlyle Group’s Carlyle Sub-Saharan Africa Fund (CSSAF) DBN Holdings. Having agreed to resign his job in January, in line with CSSAF’s condition for injecting much needed capital into the Bank, Dozie had to do something drastic to regain control. According to a letter to The Committee of Governors of the Central Bank of Nigeria (CBN) by Seyi Bickerstheth, the Diamond Bank chairman believed to have resigned, Uzoma Dozie had at a board meeting on 22 October “vigorously sought exclusive powers to negotiate and conclude the terms for the alleged acquisition of Diamond Bank by Access Bank, a development that had never been tabled before the Board, and which, (if and whenever received) like other expressions of interest, should be subjected to objective evaluation by the Board and its Advisers.” “For emphasis, the Board has never received any expression of interest by Access Bank for any form of merger or acquisition involving both Diamond Bank and Access Bank. If and when that is received, our principled position remains that the criteria must be defined by the Board; all valid and competent interests objectively assessed, and a determination made in the transparent and fiduciary cause of protecting and preserving the legitimate interests of the shareholders, depositors, staff, and other stakeholders of the bank.” Bickerstheth’s letter elicited no reaction from the CBN, as he would have expected. If it did anything, it made a case for the acquisition to happen to save Dozie, who was rumoured to have been lobbying the CBN governor. Even if he didn’t, there are enough reasons for the CBN to sanction an acquisition; Diamond Bank is in dire financial straits and was probably one of the banks the CBN recently said failed its stress test. Sources close to the matter revealed that emergency board meetings by directors of Diamond Bank had held on Friday and Sunday to finalise the acquisition deal, which may be made public on Monday. If the acquisition goes on as planned, Dozie, would have successfully foiled plans to oust him and would be leaving his position as MD/CEO of Diamond Bank on his own terms. Although, details of the deal, said to have been finalised in just days, is not yet clear, our sources say Pascal Dozie’s Kunoch Holdings, which holds 9.25 percent stake in Diamond Bank, will use proceeds to settle its loan with Access Bank. The loan was said to have funded Kunoch’s acquisition of the stakes of Actis LLP and CDC Group in Diamond Bank. Meanwhile, Kunoch will be able to convert (pdf;pg 141) its 2013 loan to Diamond Bank to shares, if the deal with Access Bank happens as we expect. The Diamond Bank saga is far from over, with several questions needing answers. One such is about the failure of the CBN to react to issues of corporate governance raised by Seyi Bickerstheth. The question becomes even more pertinent if/when the CBN sanctions the proposed acquisition. Another question is why the fight to get Uzoma Dozie out has been led by non-executive directors, who do not represent the interest of CSSAF on the Diamond Bank board. Since it was the shareholder that gave Uzoma’s departure as a condition for fresh capital, Dele Babade, who represents the Fund on the Board of Diamond Bank should be leading the fight, but nothing has been heard from him so far. According to the Securities and Exchange Commission (SEC), for acquisitions to happen, parties involved need to submit some documents, including extracts of board and shareholders resolution of both the acquirer and the target company. The extracts are to be signed by a Director and Company Secretary. We expect both Access Bank and Diamond Bank to tidy this up soon enough and hold General Meetings as soon as possible to seek shareholders’ approval. But should a resolution from a board that is not fully constituted be recognised? For Access Bank, however, it is 2011 over again. The Bank had acquired Intercontinental Bank, after the latter failed the CBN’s stress test and fell short of other regulatory requirements. Diamond Bank has found itself in a similar situation and Access Bank is ready to capitalise. When Access Bank acquired Intercontinental Bank, it became one of the top five banks in Nigeria. An acquisition of Diamond Bank, currently valued at N22.002 billion ($60.6 million), will further strengthen the bank’s position in the Nigerian banking industry, in line with its five-year strategy (pdf) to become the number bank in Nigeria by 2022.