Billionaire tech entrepreneur, Elon Musk will be bringing his Tesla Electric car to Africa by the end of 2019. The billionaire who left his birthplace, South Africa, 30 years ago, made this known through his response to a South African fan on Twitter. Tesla coming to SA hopefully by end of 2019 https://t.co/zu2HLqJZN6 — Riccardo Spagni (@fluffypony) December 11, 2018  It would be recalled that in 2016, Musk also tweeted that it would be adding more countries which include South Africa to Model 3 order page. Adding several more countries to Model 3 order page tonight. Check for details, but will include India, Brazil, SA, SK, NZ, Sing & Ireland. — Elon Musk (@elonmusk) March 31, 2016  Tesla has several stores scattered across the globe but it is yet to have one in Africa, a region suffering from poor power infrastructure and low income which forces a lot of people to buy second-hand cars which dominate most markets on the continent. It is also pertinent to note that bringing electric cars to Africa is really a laudable feat but the question of how this would work is on the minds of a lot of people since the continent suffers from poor power infrastructure.  Sub-Saharan Africa which is rich in energy resources is starved of electricity. According to the World Energy Outlook 2017,  about 588 million people which is more than half of the region’s population did not have access to electricity in 2016.  Nigeria a lower middle-income economy with several energy resources has 73 million people without access to electricity.  8 million people in South Africa, which is going to be the first place where the car will be launched in Africa, live without electricity. The upper-middle-income economy is suffering from a lot of power outages. The country’s state electricity company Eskom has incurred huge debt and it has not been able to fix its ageing infrastructure. It is also suffering from system overload which has led to power shedding. However, Tesla can record a huge success in this move if it makes use of solar energy as an alternative to electricity since its subsidiary SolarCity specializes in solar energy services. The company could also look at having its car manufacturing plant in South Africa since its neighbours Zimbabwe and Mozambique produce the most lithium on the African continent. Lithium is demanded in large quantity is used in the production of car batteries for electric cars.