The Mugabe’s are still finding it difficult adjusting to a new life void of absolute power and lacking in the decision-making process of Zimbabwe as they continually throw tantrums at the new government. Three months after Robert Mugabe’s ouster as Zimbabwe president, he has given a “tell all” speech in his private birthday party held at his Harare mansion, known as Blue Roof. Promising not to mince words, Mugabe, who has been in power for the past 37 years prior to his forced resignation, rule stated that “Mmangwana’s rule is illegal and the country is effectively under military rule, hence the need to urgently restore democratic order.” Tendering an apology on behalf of his political party, Zanu PF, for the crimes he alleged the party committed, the former president said “We are sorry, we misled our people, we are sorry we deceived them. I am talking even on behalf of Emmerson who does not want to be called president by me, we deceived our people.” Following the turn of events, Mugabe fears the party will not be re-elected the party, “We need to apologise and say the truth to them. I don’t know with the time left whether we are able to do that and unite the people. But first things first, they must accept and apologise that what they did was wrong. But I doubt if our people will forgive us. I doubt if they will be trusted again.” On another occasion, Mugabe complains of the harassment his wife faces which causes her to cry daily. He was quoted saying “My wife is crying daily. They are persecuting her, what am I without my wife and family? We are not safe.” Among other things, Grace Mugabe’s PhD from the University of Zimbabwe (UZ) is in question and according to her husband she is being harassed daily for it. Earlier this month, UZ Vice Chancellor Levi Nyagura was arrested for alleged abuse of office for awarding her the degree in 2014. Critics say her thesis is nowhere near PhD standard. While insisting on the standard of Grace’s performance, the former president stated, “I used to see her here working hard day and night. I would assist her here and there, so how can someone wake up and claim she didn’t work for it? This is harassment.” In a brief to African Union Commission (AU) chairperson Moussa Faki Mahamat, Mugabe pleaded that normalcy and democracy return in Zimbabwe. He also complained being denied his due pension and benefits. Citing his constitutional benefits which the second longest serving presidents noted he fought for. ” It’s not like I am crying for those benefits, I joined the struggle to fight to free my people, not to personally benefit anything, but why deny me benefits that I am constitutionally entitled to?” Mugabe queried. In an official government notice published by president Emmerson Mnangagwa in December, Robert Mugabe is entitled to first class air travel on four foreign trips per year; private houses and a veritable army of aides and domestic staff which also included a $10m pension.