According to Corruption Perception Index, which ranked 180 countries and territories by their perceived levels of public sector corruption based on data gotten from experts and business people, Botswana, Rwanda and Seychelles rank the least corrupt African countries on the continent. Using a scale of 0 to 100, where 0 is highly corrupt and 100 is very clean, this year’s index found that more than two-thirds of countries score below 50, with an average score of 43. However, Botswana, Rwanda and Seychelles topped the list of African countries who scored above the average point. Botswana ranked 35th with a score of 61, up from its 60th position in 2016. Following closely at the 36th position is Seychelles with a score of 60. Next African country on index is Rwanda, at 48th, with a score of 55, 1 point (54) increase from the previous year. Following corruption scandals in Botswana during the 1990s, involving misuse of public money or abuse of privileged power by several high-ranking government officials, Botswana has proactively sought to reinforce its legal and institutional frameworks. Previous research carried out, justifies Botswana’s constant lead of least corrupt countries on the African continent. In the Research, a survey was carried out to determine if people in Botswana personally had to bribe a government official to obtain employment, a government payment (such as a pension or a loan), or a basic social amenity. Results show 96 to 97 percent respondents gave a negative answer indicating they had never bribed a government official. This proposes that the experience with corruption of people in Botswana is much lower than that of people living in other countries in Africa justifying their lead in the continent. For Seychelles, Corruption Rank from 2004 till 2017 averaged 51 from 2004, reaching an all-time high of 63 in 2006 and a record low of 40 in 2015. In Rwanda, there is a track record of corruption intolerance. The government maintains a tough anti-corruption stance, with 97.3 per cent of Rwandans expressing confidence in the government’s efforts to fight corruption. Further analysis of the 2017 corruption perception index indicates that, countries with the least protection for press and non-governmental organisations (NGOs) also tend to have the worst rates of corruption. However, following various African countries active fight against corruption, there has been significant effort of various African countries to reduce the level of corruption on the continent. The analysis, which incorporates data from the Committee to Protect Journalists, shows that in the last six years, more than 9 out of 10 journalists were killed in countries that score 45 or less on the index. Established in 1995 as a composite indicator used to measure perceptions of corruption in the public sector in different countries around the world, the Corruption Perceptions Index (CPI) is one of the most respected international measurement of corruption trends.