The embattled President of South Africa, Jacob Zuma has finally resigned, bowing to pressure from his political party African National Congress (ANC) even though he disagrees with the party’s decision. The announcement was made known Wednesday night in a televised address to journalist in South Africa. “ I have therefore come to the decision to resign as the president of the Republic  of South Africa with immediate effect. Even though I disagree with the decision of the the leadership of my organization,” Zuma said during his address. Zuma’s exit which was long overdue brings an end to the country’s most troubled period since apartheid. On Tuesday the ANC ordered Zuma to step down after he refused plea to resign voluntarily. By evening, Zuma, 75, agreed to resign but proposed he would be given three to six months to step down and made some demands to ensure his safety. Following his proposal, the party gave him until yesterday, to resign or face being removed by the parliament on Thursday where a vote of no confidence would be held against him. However it’s really surprising that Zuma doesn’t think he did anything wrong that led to the push for him to step down as he president of the country.  Since Zuma assumed office its been one  accusation of corruption charge or another against him. Although he might be missed by a few South Africans for his policy on Free higher education for poor and working-class students will be introduced for first-year students in 2018 and fully phased in over five years. This move is a huge welcome development for both the local and international business communities who have had concerns over the long term effect of Zuma’s rule in the struggling economy. Upon this announcement the rand grew stronger. This is the strongest the Rand has gotten since since 2015. Cyril Ramaphosa, 65, a former union leader and multi millionaire businessman and Deputy president of South Africa will be sworn in as the president of South Africa Today. He will also lead the ruling ANC party into a general election next year. 