“What does a photo tell us about an event? What is its emotional force?” These are the words that grace the World Press Photo website as they consider six nominees for the Photo of the Year. For the first time in its history, the photojournalist prize jury has unveiled the finalists of its Photo of the Year contest before selecting a winner. The contest which is run annually and aims to reward excellence in photo journalism has nominated six powerful photographs as the finalists for the World Press Photo competition 2018, which captures moments of great significance from last year and recognises photographers who have captured images that represent events of great journalistic significance from the past year. Among the six photos is a picture that tells the story of a survivor of the Boko Haram crisis in Northern Nigeria, captured by Adam Ferguson for The New York Times. Aisha was kidnapped by Boko Haram then assigned a suicide bombing mission. After she was strapped with explosives, she found help instead of blowing herself and others up. Adam Ferguson (b.1978) was born and grew up in regional New South Wales, Australia. Other nominees for the award are: The bodies of Rohingya refugees are laid out after the boat in which they were attempting to flee Myanmar capsized about eight kilometers off Inani Beach, near Cox’s Bazar, Bangladesh. More than 100 Rohingya were on board the vessel when it capsized in rough seas last year close to Patuwartek, some 8km of Inani Beach in Cox’s Bazar District.
Seventeen survivors were found, along with 15 bodies of women and children, police said. A passer-by comforts an injured woman lying on the pavement after Khalid Masood drove his car into pedestrians killing four in addition to a police officer at Westminster Bridge in London, Britain.  Civilians who had remained in west Mosul after the battle to take the city, line up for aid in the Mamun neighbourhood. Most recently Ivor’s work has focused on the fight to defeat ISIS in Iraq and Syria, with a particular focus on the battle for Mosul. Mosul, Iraq. An unidentified young boy, who was carried out of the last ISIS-controlled area in the Old City by a man suspected of being a militant, is cared for by Iraqi Special Forces soldiers. A demonstrator, José Víctor Salazar Balza, catches fire after the gas tank on a police motorcycle explodes, during a protest against Venezuelan President Nicolas Maduro, in Caracas, Venezuela. In addition to the six finalists for Photo of the Year, 312 photos from 42 photographers in 22 countries were nominated across 8 categories – Contemporary Issues, Environment, General News, Long-Term Projects, Nature, People, Sports, and Spot News. In all 4,548 photographers from 125 countries submitted 73,044 photos to this year’s contest. Of the 42 finalist photographers, 15 have won previous awards at World Press Photo and 27 have been nominated for the first time. You can view all the nominated photos here. The winners of the 61st World Press Photo of the Year 2018 will be announced at a special awards show in Amsterdam in which they will win a cash prize of €10,000 and a selection of camera equipment from Canon. The prize-winning photos will also be shown in an exhibition that will travel to 100 locations in 45 countries to be seen by over 4 million people.