Not many artists can achieve iconic status within just five years of starting out. But Nigerian singer/songwriter, producer and label owner Davido, who left his college pursuits in Alabama to chase his music dreams by returning home to Lagos, continues to push the limits. Davido made a statement at the 2018 Wireless Festival on a glamorous set design that included a screen portraying images of line-ups come and gone. The three day event held from 6 – 8 July. Everyone’s emotions were so HIGH at this point! They were trying to Cut our time short !! The Crowd wasn’t having it ! We weren’t Havnt it! And my God wasn’t having it !! FIA  Wireless  2018!! WAAAAY UP!!!  pic.twitter.com/d8r4r1SfDx — Davido (@iam_Davido) July 8, 2018  Davido, whose real name is David Adeleke, was the only African act to perform at the summer music festival in London amidst big names like UK Grime rapper, Stormzy, Migos and A Boogie With Da Hoodie who were listed as headline acts. The Saturday leg of the festival saw Davido deliver an amazing high-energy performance, before a sold out crowd at the 2018 Wireless Music Festival in London. Despite earlier controversy surrounding the time of his performance, the celebrated Nigerian artist rendered a number of his career spanning hit songs including his 2012 hit ‘Ema Dami Duro’, ‘If’, ‘Aye’, ‘Fall’ and his 2018 hit single ‘Assurance’, while donning the national colours of the English National team. The performing and recording artiste who is also a music producer has travels frequently between the USA, the UK and Nigeria, and has experienced different cultures but continues to stay true to his roots, evident in his music which had the mammoth crowd jumping all through his performance. Davido also brought out Mayorkun on stage as the duo performed his songs, Mama and ‘Cheche’. Davido had earlier in the year performed before a crowd on 10,000 in Suriname, South America and has also lit up the stage at the Hot 97 Summer Jam festival in June. The 2018 edition of the Wireless Festival held in London surely felt the full Nigerian vibe with Davido ending with his set with a bang.