Marvel’s movie Black Panther which features the fictional African nation Wakanda is the beautiful gift that keeps on giving.

Nnedi Okoroafor, the “Naijamerican PhD-holding, World Fantasy, Hugo & Nebula Award-winning rudimentary cyborg author of scifi, Africanfuturism, Black Panther & mystical realism”, will be writing the comic book series centered around Black Panther’s younger sister, Shuri, Bustle reports. Announcement: I'm writing Shuri. "Black Panther's Sister Shuri Is Getting Her Own Comic Book Series & It's Happening So, So Soon" https://t.co/UkkQYGQci8 pic.twitter.com/bKximMptiD — Nnedi Okorafor, PhD (@Nnedi) July 17, 2018  The spinoff will focus on her journey where she’s forced to either choose the comforts of her gadget-filled lab or the people of Wakanda in the face of a tragic event: Black Panther is lost in a mission in space, leaving Wakandans asking questions about who should lead in his absence. According to the official Marvel synopsis, “Shuri is happiest in a lab, surrounded by gadgets of her own creation. She’d rather be testing gauntlets than throwing them. But a nation without a leader is a vulnerable one — and Shuri may have to choose between Wakanda’s welfare and her own.” Okorafor is an award-winning Nigerian-American writer, known for her work across the sci-fi genre, from young adult fiction to short stories and adult fiction. One of her most acclaimed works, a novel titled Who Fears Death, not only saw multiple award nominations and a World Fantasy Award for Best Novel, but it’s also on its way to becoming an HBO series with George R.R. Martin as an executive producer. As she sets to work on the Shuri series, Okorafor is, in a word, thrilled. “[Shuri is] an African young woman of genius level intelligence who is obsessed with technology and has traveled spiritually so far into the past that she’s seen Wakanda before it was Wakanda. The Ancestors call her Ancient Future. And she’s super ambitious. What do I love about her? Alllll that and more,” Okorafor shares with Bustle. “She’s a character in the Marvel Universe who really sings to me.” The brand new series will be available in October 2018 and will come to life thanks to Eisner-nominated artist Leonardo Romero.