Actress Phumzile Sitole is the latest name to take over Hollywood after bagging a role in Orange Is The New Black. The South African actress will play the role of  Antoinetta ‘Akers’ Kerson, a new inmate at the jail, on nine episodes of the series’ upcoming season, according to Sowetan Live. The female jail-themed Netflix series which revolves around Piper Chapman (played by Taylor Schilling), a usually law-abiding citizen who was convicted of transporting drug money to an ex-girlfriend ten years ago, has a stellar cast and is coming back for the sixth season, premiering 27 July. Meet Akers on July 27 !!! Kusazobalit #oitnb #tothemax #weready https://t.co/R4PHRhT1IP — Phumzile Sitole (@phumzilesitole) July 9, 2018  Sitole is well known in South Africa for her role on the TV show Rights of Passage. Orange is the New Black will be her second international role, as she has also played a role on CBS’ The Good Fight. She has also worked alongside Olivia Washington (daughter of Denzel and his wife, Pauletta) in Shakti Bhagchandani’s shortfilm “Lostfound”. Minister of Arts and Culture Nathi Mthethwa took to Twitter to congratulate Sitole with fellow actresses including Nomzamo Mbatha and Kgomotso Christopher giving her props after the announcement. It's with great pride that we congratulate US-Based South African Actress, Phumzile Sitole, who has been cast to play a role in popular Netflix show, Orange is the New Black. Phumzile has also had a role in the American legal and political drama, The Good Fight. Siyakuhalalisela. pic.twitter.com/vgiM1Sbp18 — Min. Nathi Mthethwa (@NathiMthethwaSA) July 11, 2018  OITNB has drawn critical acclaim for its representation of same-sex relationships and gender-fluid performers. It has also bagged Golden Globe and Emmy awards during its five-year run. The actress moved to New York to pursue a Master of Arts degree at Columbia University, which she completed in 2016. Now a resident of Brooklyn, NY, Sitole’s career looks set to skyrocket from this point. It’s not clear what impact her character will have on the show, but we assume “Akers” is going to take the world by storm.