Twitter, Inc. has appointmented Ngozi Okonjo-Iweala to its Board of Directors as new independent directors, effective immediately. The former Nigerian Minister of Finance was appointed alongside Robert Zoellick, who was president of the World Bank Group from July 1, 2007, to June 30, 2012. “Ngozi and Bob are distinguished leaders with unparalleled global perspective and policy expertise,” said Omid Kordestani, Executive Chairman of Twitter. “We are confident they will be incredible assets to Twitter as we continue to focus on driving transparency and making Twitter a safer, healthier place for everyone who uses our service.” Okonjo-Iweala served as Minister of Finance in Nigeria under two presidents. She also served as Minister of Foreign Affairs. While in office for the first time as Finance Minister, under President Olusegun Obasanjo’s Administration, Mrs Okonjo-Iweala spearheaded negotiations with the Paris Club of Creditors, leading to the wiping out of $30 billion of Nigeria’s debt, including the outright cancellation of $18 billion. The Nigerian economist has also served as a Senior Advisor to Lazard, Ltd., a global financial advisory and asset management firm, since September 2015. From 1982 until 2003 and then from December 2007 until August 2011, she held several positions at the World Bank, most recently as Managing Director from December 2007 until August 2011. She has been a member of the Board of Directors of Standard Chartered plc, a multinational banking and financial services company, since November 2017. She has also served as the Board Chair of the Global Alliance for Vaccines and Immunization (GAVI) since January 2016. Commenting on her appointment, Dr Okonjo-Iweala said: “Twitter is a powerful platform that continues to be used as a strong connector for the global community, and I’m thrilled to be a part of the team.” “As we strive to build a better world for tomorrow, Twitter can amplify messages and drive critical conversations around today’s most important issues. I look forward to partnering with Twitter’s talented directors and leadership team as we work to leverage the power of Twitter for good.” Marjorie Scardino, who joined the board of Twitter as its first female director, will be stepping down from the Board for personal reasons at the end of the year. 