Next month, some of the biggest names in music, television, movies, and sports will gather for the 2018 BET Awards in Los Angeles. The nominees for next month’s ceremony have been announced and includes artists such as SZA, Daniel Caesar, Beyoncé, DJ Khaled, Rihanna, and H.E.R. The BET Awards was established in 2001 by the Black Entertainment Television network to celebrate African Americans and other American minorities in music, acting, sports, and other fields of entertainment over the past year but has grown to include acts from Africa and those of African descent around the world. The awards are presented annually, and are broadcast live on BET. The “Best International Act” category holds five African acts; Nigeria’s Mavin Tiwa Savage, who recently released her stellar Sugarcane EP, and Davido, having had a great year in 2017. Distruction Boyz , a Gqom music duo from Durban, South Africa, also made the list. Commenting on their nomination at the BET nominee event, the group said, “We are super excited to be nominated for the #BETAwards2018. To be on your first album and get a nomination of this magnitude is really something.” The duo were also joined by Rapper Cassper Nyovest for his third BET nomination and DR Congolese singer-songwriter, Fally Ipupa.  Nominated in the same category are also English artists Stefflon Don, J Hus, and Stormzy—the grime and hip hop artist who took the world by storm with his debut album, Gangs, Signs and Prayers. Completing the list were Dadju, and Niska, French artists of Congolese heritage. The recipient of the award will, for the first time, be awarded on the live show and not as a separate event, a long-standing complaint of the international acts. Kenyan-Mexican Academy award winner Lupita Nyong’o, who saw her rise to stardom with the movie 12 years a slave ,has also been nominated for “Best Actress”. DJ Khaled, however, is leading the pack scoring six nominations including Video of the Year (“Wild Thoughts”), Album of the Year (Grateful), and best male hip-hop artist, Khaled is followed by Pulitzer Prize winner Kendrick Lamar, who received five nominations in the categories for Best Collaboration (“Loyalty” featuring Rihanna), Video of the Year (“Humble”), Album of the Year (Damn) Other notable nominees include SZA and Migos trail Kendrick with four nominations each, J.Cole (Best Male Hip Hop Artist), Tiffany Haddish (Best Actress), Donald Glover (Best Actor), Stephen Curry (Sportsman of the Year), and Black Panther for Best Movie. The 2018 BET Awards will air live on 26 June 9PM BST/ 9PM CEST/ 8PM CAT.