Rwanda has recently signed a Bilateral Air Service Agreement (BASA) with Ghana to boost ties between the two countries. The service agreement is aimed at boosting growth and development in Africa’s aviation industry as the two nations recognize the importance of the air service deal to spur intra-African trade and elevate the economic statuses that favour both countries. According to Joyce Bawa Mogtari, Ghana’s deputy transport minister, the launch of RwandAir’s commercial flights to Accra, Ghana will boost business and open up investment opportunities between the two countries. The new air service deal will enable RwandAir operate commercial flights in Ghana. With entrance into Ghana, Rwanda’s flag carrier can begin stretching its wings further in the continent. “This is a good move that will ease access to Rwanda. There is no reason why investors from our two countries should not use the flight to tap into the opportunities it presents,” Mogtari said Cecilia Abena Dapaah from Rwanda’s the Ministry of Infrastructure said, “Although the African air transport industry currently supports nearly seven million jobs and US$80 billion in GDP, it faces numerous challenges that hinder the potential growth of the industry.” The challenges, Dapaah added, include poor intra-Africa connectivity, inadequate infrastructure and weak human capacity. Prior to the deal in Ghana, RwandAir have been operating in Nigeria. And in April, the national carrier launched a new route to Abuja, Nigeria’s capital, operating flights four times a week between Kigali and Abuja, making it the airline’s second destination in the West African country, after the commercial hub Lagos. Bilateral air services agreements permit designated airlines of contracting countries to operate commercial flights that cover the transport of passengers and cargo between those two countries. The agreement also permits frequency regulation and regulation of air service capacity, pricing, among other commercial requirements between countries.