A Kenyan hotel has decided to make business out of the royal wedding between Prince Harry and Meghan Markle by charging couples a sum of Ksh 1million (about $10,000) to watch a televised royal wedding from the confines of the hotel. The Windsor Golf Hotel & Country Club in Nairobi, which bears the same name as Windsor Castle in the United Kingdom where the royal wedding will take place, has offered an “exclusive viewing of the wedding, complete with a champagne toast and live commentary throughout the ceremony to make this day what can only be described as a True Royal Wedding experience.” While this may seem as a great business idea, the outrageous pricing, which the hotel says is intentional to make the event viewing exclusive, is very opportunistic. The royal wedding is taking place on 19 May, and will be televised to ITV Choice (DSTV 123) subscribers, and on BBC. Other online media will also televise the event for free. Although Windsor argues that its total package includes a night for two at the hotel and a helicopter ride to Kenya’s highest mountain and the second-highest in Africa, after Kilimanjaro, Mt Kenya for breakfast. It however does not equate to live presence at the wedding. To book a round ticket with Emirates a passenger spends a minimum KES 98,120 (about $1000) and a couple spend a total of KES 196,240, this is less than the sh1 million being charged and the couple may get a change at seeing the event live. Without an invite, the couple who chose to see the newlyweds instead of opting for a televised version can catch a glimpse of Harry and Markle after the ceremony, when they leave Windsor Castle in an open carriage for a two-mile procession through the main street in Windsor town. And the Kenyan couple will have all the champagne and breakfast as they so choose. Prince Henry of Wales, known as Prince Harry and American actress, Meghan Markle got engaged in November, with the Prince giving Markle a bespoke engagement ring  consisting of a large central diamond from Botswana, with two smaller diamonds from his mother’s jewellery collection.