There are models of the way the economy works but when they are assumed to always apply, there might be a gap in theory and reality. It’s the way you expect African companies to compete with international companies in the name of free trade. It’s the way you’d expect economic models that have worked in the West to be applicable in developing economies in Africa. It’s the way questions are frequently asked about the decision of Nigeria’s central bank to keep shoring up the naira using its foreign exchange reserves. Nigeria’s forex reserves fell to $45.83 billion in August from $47.11 billion in July due to a hike in interest rates by US Federal Reserves and the central bank’s continued interventions in the forex market. While speaking at one of the sessions at the 2018 annual meetings of the World Bank Group and International Monetary Fund (IMF), Anna Ilyina, IMF’s head of emerging economies regional studies division, had urged Nigeria to use its foreign reserves judiciously and build more buffers as there would be further interest rate hike in the United States. “We are going to need to build buffers,” Godwin Emefiele, the governor of the Central Bank of Nigeria (CBN) told journalists while in Indonesia for the meetings, “but unfortunately I must say that we are in a period where it is difficult to talk about building reserves.” “You can only build reserve buffers if you want to hold on to the reserves while allowing your currency to go and wherever it goes is something else. It is a choice we have to make and at this time, the choice for Nigeria is to maintain a stable exchange rate so that businesses can plan and we don’t create problems in the banking system.” While the central bank’s stance has been criticized by several economists and the IMF, whose clamour for Nigeria to float its currency has been on for long. Economists preach economic models that they are sure works, usually ignoring peculiarities of certain economies. Although the importance of having a sizeable war chest of forex reserves cannot be overemphasized — when Russia’s rubble lost about 40 percent of its value against the dollar in 2014, the more than $80 billion in reserves were used to prop up the ruble — however, when building up reserves is going to affect a policy move that has worked, it is understandable to watch reserves drop. More so, one of the most important reasons central banks hold reserves is to manage their currencies. Aurelien Mali is a vice president and senior credit officer at Moody’s. He thinks the CBN’s system is working. “The focus of the CBN’s entire policy has been to stabilise the exchange rate particularly creating a NAFEX window and issuing certificates to mop up naira liquidity. It has been rather successful as reserves grew with more foreign capital inflows and lower inflation, providing some space to reduce reserves before it starts to affect the exchange rate,” he said. Countries should be allowed to grow at their own pace and make decisions based on their realities. An important risk Nigeria’s stable foreign exchange rate has saved the country is the effect of elections. Elections have always taken its toll on the naira as politicians build war chests in dollars. During the 2015 elections, dollar-buying peaked in the week leading to the party primaries. Similar events have happened this year but it has not affected the naira due to the central bank’s forex policy. Stressing that the central bank seems to be on the right track, Mali added: “More importantly, while imports are still suppressed with the existence of soft capital controls, the elevated oil prices cause larger and larger current account surpluses (5.7% in Q2) that support the overall balance of the Balance of payment and ultimately the reserves.” While Nigeria is in a good place with a balance of payment strong enough to maintain forex stability, foreign currency inflows into the government’s account remain dominated by crude oil and gas exports, which accounted for 93.28 percent of total exports and 64.46 percent of total inflows in Q1 2018, hence, a vulnerability to developments in the global oil and gas market. As things stand, whether oil prices remain stable or not, the Naira will come under a fair amount of pressure. In the latest edition of his newsletter for Stanbic IBTC Stockbrokers, Equity Sales Manager Dele Akintola said he expects rates in the Investor Exporter Forex (IEFX) to hover between N360 – N385. “We estimate that total Fixed Income maturities between now and the end of December 2018 is around $7.5 billion. Between now and February 2019, we estimate $11 – $12 billion dollars of maturities. Reserves are currently at about $43 billion. If we assume no inflow and 100 percent outflow, the reserves will be sitting at $31 billion dollars by February,” Akintola noted, adding however that this is unlikely to happen. “The actions of the CBN in the FX market between now and December will be very important as we will be seeing a sizable amount of maturities in the Fixed income market.” Meanwhile, the country will hope oil prices remain high while the central bank takes measures to encourage investors with maturing FI and other instruments to remain in the market. Thus, analysts expect the central bank to increase rates at its next Monetary Policy Committee (MPC) meeting. This will not only discourage further sell offs, but it will also help to stem inflation which has risen consecutively for the last three months. The MPC had retained rates at its current level since 2016. “We think it is possible for the MPC to adopt multiple strategies to protect the reserves and currency versus using the reserve to protect the currency,” Akintola noted. He expressed belief that a combination of the following will help Nigeria stem the outflow: hike the Monetary Policy Rate, increase the Cash Reserve Ratio from 22 percent, aggressively mop up liquidity in the coming months, allow the IEFX rate move marginally and shore up reserves with the Eurobond proceeds due to happen and Derivates and SWAPs.