Seun Kuti’s fourth album, “Black Times”, which was released in early March and debuted at number eight on the Billboard World Music Chart in the first week of its release, has been nominated in the Best World Music Album category for the 61st Grammy Awards, according to a post put out by the Afrobeat singer on his Instagram page. Seun, son of Afrobeat originator, Fela Kuti, shared the news on Saturday and urged his followers to vote for him, this before nominations are announced on 5 December in all 84 categories which includes recordings released between 1 October 2017, and 30 September, 2018. On “Black Times”, Seun Kuti features tracks that mirror the common problems of leadership confronting many African countries backed by his father’s Egypt 80 ensemble. “Black Times” features other music giants like Carlos Santana and Robert Glasper who lend their voices to some of the issues affecting the black community. “Black Times is a true reflection of my political and social beliefs,” the 35 year old singer, bandleader and musician, said at the albums release. “It is an album for anybody who believes in change and understands the duty we have to rise up and come together. The elites always try to divide the working class and the poor people of the world. The same oppression felt by workers in Flint, Michigan is felt by workers in Lagos and Johannesburg.”   All my Grammy voting friends. Y’all know the vibes #getthesax A post shared by  Seun Kuti (@bigbirdkuti) on Oct 26, 2018 at 1:46pm PDT Previously, Seun’s brother and the eldest son of the afrobeat pioneer, Femi also bagged four Grammy nominations in the World Music Category. He was first nominated in 2003 for the album Fight to Win. Subsequent nominations came in 2010, 2012 and 2013. “We are delighted to host the world’s premier music event back in our hometown and look forward to celebrating the remarkable musical contributions made by songwriters, producers, engineers, mixers, and recording artists,” said Neil Portnow, President/CEO of the Recording Academy. “As always, Grammy season will kick off with a series of events that showcase various genres of music, educational programs, and our charitable initiatives. We look forward to working with our Los Angeles partners to produce some remarkable and unforgettable events.” The 61st Grammy Awards, Music’s Biggest Night, will be broadcast live from Staples Center in Los Angeles on 10 February, 2019. On 23 October, the Recording Academy and CBS announced more to look forward to, setting the date for the 62nd Grammy Awards on Sunday, 26 January, 2020, and the 63rd Grammy Awards on Sunday, 31 January, 2021.