The UK’s 2019 power list was officially announced Tuesday 23 October, and a host of men and women with African roots made the cut. Now in its 12th year, the Powerlist celebrates Britain’s most influential people of African, African-American, and Afro-Caribbean heritage. Boxing champion Anthony Joshua, with the WBA, IBF, IBO and WBO heavyweight titles to his name, made the list alongside other sports personalities like former wheelchair basketball player, Ade Adepitan; record-holding sprinter, Dina Asher-Smith, and Olympian, Mo Farah. The chairman and CEO Of EbonyLife Media, Mo Abudu, was also on the Powerlist which was revealed at a gala dinner in the City of London, held to celebrate the honorees and raise funds for related charities. Hollywood actor, John Boyega also of Nigerian descent was on the list alongside the Duchess of Sussex Meghan Markle, Actor Idris Elba, Thandie Newton, Naomie Harris and grime rapper Stormzy among others. The Powerlist is chosen from a list of nominees by a distinguished panel, chaired by a former high court judge, that includes a Queen’s Counsel and leading professionals in business and the arts. Each year, the panel is reminded that ‘influence’ of the nominees is defined as “the ability to positively alter events and change lives as over a protracted period of time.” Congratulations to everyone who made it onto the Powerlist 2019. Look forward to seeing many of you later @plaisterershall for the Black Excellence Dinner. #powerlist2019 #blackleadership pic.twitter.com/MKz2hdog0R — POWERLIST (@powerlistmag) October 23, 2018  “The Powerlist is the most authoritative recognition of Black influence in the UK, therefore I am honoured and humbled to be included,” Mo Abudu said while reacting to the news of being named on the prestigious list. “It’s nice to know that those of us who return home to make our contribution are not being overlooked. This publication is sent to schools and universities all over the UK, so I hope that my story can influence even one child to follow their dreams.” Not less than 27 people of Nigerian descent were included among the most influential and powerful black Britons. Nneka Abulokwe – IT and Governance Advisor, Nero Ughwujabo – Special Adviser to the Prime Minister, Tunde Ogungbesan – BBC head of diversity and inclusion, David Olusoga – Historian, filmmaker and joint creative director of Uplands Television Ltd, Yinka Shonibare – Artist, and Ebele Okobi – Facebook’s director of public policy for Africa feature among the 100. This year’s Powerlist Number One is Ric Lewis, CEO of Tristan Capital Partners, Britain’s largest black owned and black run business.