Kenya’s increase in excise duty tax applicable on voice, SMS and data services have led to a hike in prices by telecommunications services who do not plan to bear the brunt of the increase. In September, Kenya’s President, Uhuru Kenyatta signed a new finance bill increasing levies in key sectors, including the telecommunication, as a way to raise funds and narrow budget-deficit. The newly signed law increased the excise duty tax applicable on voice, SMS and data services from 10 percent to 15 percent. This is an additional increase on the value-added tax applicable to mobile services at the rate of 16 percent. Kenya plans to raise Sh20.2 billion from the 12 percent excise duty on fees charged for mobile money transfer services, the 15 percent excise duty on telephone and internet data services and the 20 percent duty on fees charged for money transfer services. Meaning that for every Sh100 ($0.99) airtime bought, the State will now take Sh15 ($0.15)instead of Sh10 ($0.099) as exercise taxes. In Safaricom’s 2017 financial report, the company recorded Sh95.64 billion ($946.42 million) in voice revenue up from Sh93.46 billion ($924.84 million) in the previous financial year. Mobile data revenue grew from Sh29.3 billion ($289.89 million) to Sh36.36 billion ($359.82 million )during the period. However, with the new tax in place, Safaricom will be paying a whooping Sh5 billion more than it paid last year if it records the same revenue. The company which does not plan to run at a loss while the government raises funds, said it is revising its tariffs following the approval of the taxes. Until the tariffs are decided upon, effective from Thursday 18 October 2018, there will be an increase in their call, SMS  and data services. The prices for voice calls and data would be increased by 30 cents ($0.0029), texts would be increased by 10 cents and a 15 percent levy will also be reflected in its home and office internet plans. Bob Collymore, the Chief Executive officer of Safaricom, the dominant telecommunications operator that controls almost 30 million out of the 45.5 million mobile phone subscribers in Kenya, stated that “the company regrets the impact these additional taxes will have on the customers.” The new taxes have been controversial in Kenya where citizens have complained that the government is forcing them to dig deeper into their almost empty pockets as President Kenyatta raises the Sh130 billion($1.286 billion) he needs to keep his spending plans on track. Initially, the government proposed a 16 percent value-added tax on all petroleum products but after series of protests across the country, the government reduced the fuel tax to 8 percent. How the taxes affect Kenya A 2018 report by the Worldwide broadband speed league shows that Madagascar with broadband speed of 24.87 Megabytes per Second (mbps) has the fastest internet in Africa followed by Kenya with an internet speed of 10.11mbps. Kenya also had the highest adoption growth of 15 mbps range at 5,159 percent. The report noted that low internet charges have been a great enabler to thousands of innovators who have been coming up with applications that have made Kenya emerge as the Silicon Savannah of Africa. Unfortunately, this new tax might inhibit innovation as “coverage and penetration of internet will be affected. The quality of the internet will also be affected,” stated Stephen Mutoro, Secretary-General of the Consumers Federation of Kenya (Cofek). The recent improvements in internet speed have had positive impacts on businesses in Kenya, as the country witnessed a rise in e-learning services, increase in social media usage and increase in internet banking over the last few years. However, the price hike occasioned by the new tax may see a drop in internet usage, as internet would no longer be as affordable as it used to be. The impact may also be far-reaching for businesses that rely on the internet for sales, among other things. On the bright side, the taxes would help Kenya repay their debt and be in good standing with the International Monetary Fund (IMF), in anticipation of new debts. Kenya which has a debt of Sh5.3 trillion ($52.444 billion) have plans of paying at least Sh658.2 billion ($6.512 billion) in the 2017/18 financial year, a figure equated to a sum of 40.3 percent of Sh1.6 trillion revenue targets. Kenya is not the only country to increase taxes on the telecommunication industry to raise revenue. Uganda, Zambia and Zimbabwe and some other African countries have done it in the past.