The British Fashion Council has announced the list of nominees for the annual Fashion Awards presented in partnership with Swarovski, where top names like Prada, Gucci, and Balenciaga lead the pack with the most nominations. However, a few Africans have been nominated for the prestigious awards. The nominations for this year’s Fashion Awards were announced in London on 23 October with five contenders in each category. The awards – which rebranded itself from the British Fashion Awards to the Fashion Awards in 2016 – celebrates the best of creativity and innovation in fashion, celebrating exceptional individuals, brands and businesses across the globe. Ghanaian-born Adwoa Aboah is in line for Model of the Year. Aboah has been the face of a number of notable brands such as Giorgio Armani and Burberry, presenting a nostalgic campaign for the latter with her family back in Ghana. Adwoa Aboah, who took home the 2017 accolade for Model of the Year, will be competing this year alongside Bella Hadid, Kaia Gerber, Winnie Harlow and Adut Akech. At just 18 years old, Sudanese-born Adut Akech Bior is also up for Model of the Year. Akech made her fashion week runway debut as an exclusive in the Saint Laurent S/S 17 show, and has been embraced by Karl Lagerfeld, mentored by Naomi Campbell, and featured in the much-coveted Pirelli Calendar. Virgil Abloh, who made history as the first black artistic director of Louis Vuitton Menswear—a stellar debut collection which celebrated the influence black people have had on street culture, was nominated in three categories: Designer of the Year (Himself for Louis Vuitton), Brand of the Year and Urban Luxe (Off-White). The list also features familiar names like Alessandro Michele, Demna Gvasalia, Ricardo Tisci, and Pierpaolo Piccioli,  all getting nods from the council. “We are delighted to reveal the nominees for the 2018 Fashion Awards,” said Nadja Swarovski, member of the executive board at Swarovski. “Representing fashion’s most inspiring emerging and established talents, this list is the perfect showcase for the energy and diversity of the industry today.” For the first time, this year’s awards will also honour 100 of the most innovative and inspiring talents from around the world, ranging from makeup artists and models to digital influencers and journalists, voted for by 2,000 members of the fashion industry. “Each and every one of them is being recognised for their creative excellence and innovation,” BFC chair, Stephanie Phair, told press at the briefing. “I look forward to celebrating them alongside the rest of the industry from across the globe.” The 10 pre-announced awards will be given out at a star-studded ceremony at the Royal Albert Hall on 10 December.