Togo’s Minister of Mines and Energy, Marc Dèdèriwè Ably-Bidamon, and the Director General of the pan-African industrial group Eranove, Marc Albérola, on Tuesday signed a power generation concession agreement for the design, financing, construction, commissioning, operation and maintenance of the Kékéli Efficient Power plant to be located in the Lomé port area. The project is in line with the Togolese government’s commitment to promoting the national economy and cope with the ever-increasing demand for electrical power. According to the Minister, the plant will provide extra electrical power for some 263,000 Togolese households. Togo has an ambitious “electrification strategy” that the country hopes will make electricity reach 50 percent of its population by 2020, 75 percent by 2025 and universal access by 2030. Only about 28 percent of the Togolese population currently have access to electricity. German conglomerate Siemens will be actively involved in the electrification efforts of the Togolese Republic, providing the turbines, technology and maintenance services for the Kékéli Efficient Power plant. The construction will be carried out by the Spanish group Grupo TSK (EPC), with the West African Development Bank (BOAD) and the pan-African banking group Oragroup as lead partners for the mobilization of financing in CFA francs. The Eranove group will develop, operate and maintain the plant. With an installed capacity of 65 MW, the Kékéli Efficient Power gas plant will use combined cycle technology. The technology makes it possible to produce more electricity without extra gas consumption while limiting CO2 emissions into the atmosphere. Developing the Kékéli Efficient Power plant in Togo is also an important step in the growth of the pan-African industrial group Eranove. Eranove already operates 1,247 MW of generating capacity and is currently developing projects aiming to bring 1,000 MW to the continent. “We are very happy and extremely proud to contribute in designing the national strategy and implementing the National Development Plan by developing the new electricity production unit alongside the Togolese Republic, and we thank the country’s authorities for their trust,” said Marc Albérola, CEO of Eranove Group. Backed by its leading shareholder Emerging Capital Partners (ECP), a pan-African leader in private equity raising $3 billion of assets dedicated to the African continent, Eranove Group is developing numerous projects in Côte d’Ivoire, Gabon, Madagascar, and Mali.