Nigerian based Med-View airline has retrenched 60 of its staff as part of its restructuring plans. This comes barely seven months after the company sacked 52 of its workers for lack of adequate aircraft for operations. According to the Airline, “going by the realities of the prevailing economic situation, Medview Airline Plc is currently restructuring in order to fully maximize its operation and prepare adequately for the challenges ahead. In the course of this exercise, some staff, about 60 are required to step aside as a result of the downsizing.” In April, Med-View airline witnessed a near-crash experience but for the pilot who brought the aircraft heading for Maiduguri, northern Nigeria, to an abrupt halt. The pilot noticed the aircraft was missing a vital component after taxing with its 90 passengers and decided to suspend the flight to avoid a crash. Currently, the airline is banned from operating in the European Union. In a statement released on Monday 15 September 2018, Med-view noted that its management is working assiduously to ensure that two of its aircraft that are undergoing C-Check will be added to its fleet in the next one month in order to boost operations. The airline which has its slogan as The Airline of Nigeria, currently has only one operational aircraft from the initial seven it began operating with when it was founded in 2007. Previously, Med-View airline schedules flights to nine domestic and nine international destinations in five countries across West Africa, Europe and the Middle East including Saudi Arabia, but with its current situation, the Lagos based airline only operates one Boeing 737 aircraft to and from Lagos and Abuja. The Nigerian aviation industry has been bedevilled with numerous challenges in recent years, leading to the death of many airlines. Within a seven-year period, six airlines have vanished from Nigerian airspace compared to the 13 airlines that operated seven years ago.  As of January 2018, only 42 aircrafts operated in the country out of the initial 92. However, local airline Air Peace’s order of 10 Boeing 737 Max in September raised hope that the industry was recovering, especially with the government’s zero-duty regime and withdrawal of VAT on commercial aircraft and spare parts. Lending rate also went as low as 10 percent.