South African miner Exxaro Resources is ready to supply coal to state-owned power utility Eskom, as mines which supply coal to the utility’s 15 large power stations no longer deliver enough feedstock to cover demand. Exxaro told Reuters in an interview on Friday that an offer has been made to Eskom. “We have made offers to Eskom, they have from what I hear, approved those offers,” Exxaro’s chief executive officer Mxolisi Mgojo said. “The final decision is sitting with the (state) Treasury to enable them to execute those contracts.” According to Mgojo, the miner, which currently supplies Eskom’s Matimba, Matla and Medupi power stations, is considering short-term contracts with Eskom. “We don’t want to get involved in long-term 10-, 20-, 30-year type arrangements. We want to create the flexibility whereby when the opportunity makes sense for us to play short-term into the Eskom market we have that flexibility to do that,” Mgojo told Reuters. Eskom, which is responsible for 90 percent of South Africa’s electricity supply, needs 3 million tonnes of coal to close its deficit. The state-owned utility had last month blamed coal shortages on Gupta-linked Tegeta Exploration and Resources, but South Africa’s Business Report quoted Energy analyst Ted Blom to have said the shortage was long coming, explaining that Eskom was warned as early as 2007 that it could face a coal cliff. David Christianson, a Policy Fellow of the SA Institute of Race Relations, a liberal think tank that promotes political and economic freedom, disagrees with Blom. According to him, the crisis in coal mining is a product of the same toxic mix of corruption and resource nationalism threatening the entire mining industry in South Africa. “One point needs to be stated clearly at the outset: The coal cliff has nothing to do with South Africa running out of usable coal,” Christianson wrote on IOL’s Business Report. “The Minerals Council South Africa points out that, at current levels of extraction (including exports), South Africa has sufficient coal reserves to last more than a century. Others, including the Fossil Fuel Foundation, put the figure at closer to 200 years. What is at stake here is the cost-plus or “tied” coal mine model, the reason South Africa enjoyed some of the world’s cheapest and most reliable electricity for so many years. “The most efficient way to get coal to the generator is to build the power station at the pit head. Under the model, Eskom would pay the capital and operating costs of the mine, plus a small margin to incentivise the private sector operator,” he wrote, adding, however, that Eskom has not been able to do this because the loss-making utility frittered money away on wages, consulting fees, cost overruns, kick-backs and funding the Gupta family. Eskom said in September that it was trying to secure new contracts with companies to ensure it had enough coal, after Tegeta, its major supplier cut supplies and went under business rescue administration. The company is expected to expedite action to ensure the situation does not deteriorate to the extent of having to re-introduce load-shedding. When this was done in 2015, it affected economic output. The National Energy Regulator of South Africa (Nersa) said 23 days of power cuts in 2008 cost the economy an estimated R50 billion.