South African state-owned logistics firm, Transnet terminated the contract of its Chief Executive, Siyabonga Gama for alleged misconduct in a multi-million-dollar deal but Gama wants Transnet to honour their contract as he challenges the company to court. The South African rail, port and pipeline company which operates nearly three-quarters of the African rail network, has for a long time been investigating allegations of corruption in the procurement of diesel and electric locomotives. Transnet noted that they value and require transparency, accountability and expenditure that is cost-effective.  But during the investigation into the Gama’s tender for new locomotives, they found an inexplicable increase in excess of R9 billion ($627 million) in costs. Following the accusation that Gama violated his financial, procurement, and fiduciary duties, the company’s board of Directors gave Gama 10 days to submit a written representation as to why he should not be fired. To stop the board from terminating his employment contract, Gama took to court. He approached the Labour Court in Johannesburg to interdict the intention to dismiss him. Gama who learned of his sack on Monday, October 22, says that Transnet contravened its own processes. According to him, “At all material times, my attorneys and I advised and urged Transnet to respect the terms of the employment agreement that stated clearly that any dispute between the parties should be referred to arbitration. Adding that “Transnet contravened its own disciplinary code that states that employees are entitled to a disciplinary hearing. I had no choice but to approach the court to stop the board from terminating my employment contract in breach of its terms and provisions,” he said. The fired Chief executive says he is willing to rebut all accusations levelled against him with facts before a credible judge in an impartial process as he urged Transnet to honour his employment contract. Presently, the Labour Court has ordered that the matter of his termination be referred for arbitration.