South Africa-based telecommunications company, MTN in its quarterly report released on 29 October for the period ended 30 September 2018 announced that the company witnessed a drop in subscribers from South Africa as well as a decline in digital revenue in the Nigerian market. Despite the decline, the results had a mixed representation of positives and negatives, with MTN South Africa recording service revenue growth of 3 percent year-on-year, 12.5 percent data increase, 9.9 percent digital revenue increase and an 8.4 percent decline in outgoing voice revenue service. Revenue for prepaid service increased by 0.5 percent in South Africa and postpaid service revenue increased by 1.9 percent but the subscriber numbers were down. Of the 23.7 million prepaid customers, the quarter-on-quarter subscription was down by 3.4 percent, however, things are looking up with 2.9 million postpaid users and an additional 2.1 percent quarter-on-quarter increase of postpaid users. The number of active data subscribers increased by 6.7 percent to 13,5 million. The multinational mobile telecommunications company noted that South African subscribers are under pressure of a higher Value Added Tax rate and a weak economy hence the low subscription rate in the country. However, it still has a stronghold in the Nigerian market regardless of the problems with the Nigerian authorities as its performance remains strong. According to MTN’s Group president and CEO, Rob Shuter, the company successfully completed listing in Ghana but every plan to list in the Nigerian Stock Exchange have been challenged by the recent issues with the Central Bank of Nigeria and Attorney General of the Federal Republic of Nigeria. Service revenue in Nigeria increased by 17.4 percent year-over-year, with a 52 percent increase in data revenue. Digital revenue in the Nigerian market declined by 28.5 percent thanks to continued optimisation of the company’s value-added services (VAS) business, which includes MTN Music+ and Comedy+. The telco charges a subscription fee in exchange for access to a selection of content. Implementation of new taxes saw MTN Uganda’s month on month revenue to decline but the overall service revenue grew by 7.4 percent, led by growth in voice and data revenue. Outgoing voice revenue grew 5.1 percent and data revenue increased by 12.4 percent in the period. MTN Uganda reported nearly 2.0 million active data subscribers. Operating environment and competitive pressure in Cameroon made MTN witness an 8.0 percent year on year decline
in service revenue. Outgoing voice revenue also declined by 11.8 percent, however, data revenue increased by 8.7 percent.