The first ever Shanghai Import Expo would see to the importation of over 40 percent of Kenya’s fresh produce including avocado, mangoes and cashew nuts into the Chinese market. The signing of the Sanitary and Phytosanitary deal could also allow the export of stevia, a natural sweetener largely grown in the Rift Valley to the Chinese market. In November, Kenya’s President, Uhuru Kenyatta will lead a delegation of horticultural farmers and traders to the first Shanghai Import Expo to witness the signing of food safety accords, strengthen the Kenya-China relations and boost home-grown agricultural production in Kenya. Kenya overtook South Africa to become the largest exporter of Avocado. About one-fifth of its annual harvest is exported mainly to Europe and soon to China. The country produces an estimated 115,000 metric tons of avocado annually. According to International Trade Centre (ITC) data, Kenya exported record 51,507 tons in 2017 against old champ South Africa’s 43,492 tons. Three-quarters of Kenya’s exports end up in Europe and the Middle Eastern markets. Recently, the popularity of Avocados has increased globally, thanks to the global awareness of Avocado’s health benefits. Data from the US Department of Agriculture revealed that in the United States, per capita consumption of avocado increased from 3.5 pounds in 2006 to 7.1 pounds in 2016, with 70 percent of Avocado growers being small-scale farmers. There are have been concerns regarding farmers’ eagerness to uproot their coffee trees for Avocado because it takes about three years to start producing avocado pear and a further two to reach maturity. Another major concern is a future global price decline caused by the recent fruit boom. According to experts, this recent avocado boom is unpredictable as other farmers might decide to flood the market with more avocados, thereby forcing the price of avocado to fall globally and rise locally. It has already begun as farmers and traders were intentionally starving the domestic market in favour of the international market resulting in the price of the fruit rise to a three-and-a-half-year high with an avocado in Nairobi’s retail markets selling for Sh50 ($0.49) to Sh80 ($0.79) up from Sh10 ($0.099) to Sh20 (0.20) each during high season. The rise of avocado in Kenya has led farmers to not only dump planting of coffee but also the shortage of some other fruits. Early this year, the government banned all avocado exports following a severe shortage of popular varieties, Fuerte and Hass, which were off-season. In March, Kenyan listed company, Kakuzi limited announced it will stop growing its trademark crop, pineapples after more than two decades to adopt fast moving avocados. For farmers and traders, avocado is a door to Kenya’s economic growth and development which of course translates to riches for them. A single tree can yield more than 1,000 fruits annually, making it suitable for small-scale landowners. Should the fruit be sold at an average of Sh10 ($0.099) each, it means a single tree can fetch more than Sh10,000 ($98.73) every season. Avocado (Persea Americana Mill) is grown in several agro-ecological zones mainly by small-scale growers, 85 percent of whom grow it for subsistence, local markets and export. The fruit of the plant also called an avocado (or avocado pear or alligator pear), is botanically a large berry containing a single large seed known as a ‘pit’ or a ‘stone.’