Egypt’s population has tripled over the last 50 years, increasing the pressure on the land and the Nile Delta in particular, where growing pollution and wastewater management are threatening the health of the people. To improve access to sanitation services for the Nile Delta people who face a challenge of wastewater finding its way to pollute drinking water, the European Investment Bank (EIB) has pledged a €215 million ($247.5 million) fund to the government of Egypt. The agreement under the name Kitchener Drain Depollution Project was signed on 17 October at the EIB headquarters in Luxemburg by Egypt’s Minister of Investment and International Cooperation, Sahar Nasr, and EIB’s President Werner Hoyer. In a statement at the signing ceremony, Hoyer noted that “as the world’s largest lender in the global water sector, we are signing today, a new agreement, supporting the depollution of a crucial drain in Egypt. This project will have a great impact, as it will make sanitation services more available and improve the quality of water and farming conditions in the Nile Delta region.” He added that “overall, the project will contribute to raising the living standards of Egyptians in many governorates. Our finance for the project comes under the Economic Resilience Initiative that seeks to improve the resilience of the Egyptian economy and build socio-economic infrastructure.” For over 30 years, Egypt has been building centralised wastewater treatment plants. However, many people living outside the cities and in rural communities are not recipients of these plants. For those living in rural areas, the Nile River is the main supplier of drinking water, unfortunately, pollution from human and animal waste has made the river deadly. As of 2015, Egypt had about 500 rural waste treatment plants in operation spread over more than 5,500 rural communities, however, only 37 percent of rural households were covered by a public sewage line. According to the World Health Organization (WHO), five percent of Egypt’s population die yearly from water contamination and lack of sanitation.