American electronic dance music trio Major Lazer have built a reputation for showcasing varieties of cultures whose sound they embed into their music. The globetrotters include record producer Diplo, and DJs Jillionaire and Walshy Fire, their music spanning numerous genres while mixing dancehall and moombahton with reggae, soca, house and more recently, afrobeats. With a keen ear for quality music, the trio’s study and fusion of sounds from the Caribbean, the US, UK and Europe, have made the group hits across markets. In recent years, Major Lazer gradually tested the waters within the African music sphere, Diplo earlier touring in April, and followed with a string of collaborations with African acts to produce top of the list jams. Before the advent of the slew of singles and remixes, those in niche circles will recognize the group from their 2015 hit Lean On with French producer DJ Snake which featured MØ on a video set in India in a flow of saris and blue mini buses. Diplo, on making its music video in India had said, “When we toured there as Major Lazer, it was mind blowing to see our fan-base and we wanted to incorporate the attitude and positive vibes into our video and just do something that embodies the essence of Major Lazer. Major Lazer has always been a culture mashup and to us, India feels like some kind of special creature with one foot in history and one firmly in the future. The experience is something we’ll never forget.” It’s time for Africa, and as the continent takes over the airwaves, with major music and dance influences on mainstream American music such as with French Montana‘s Unforgettable and Drake’s One Dance with WizKid & Kyla, Major Lazer too isn’t left out. The artistes have been putting out a cultural map of African cultures, and are responsible for the remix of the Nigerian hit Leg Over by Mr Eazi featuring American artistes French Montana & TY Dolla Sign, the low-slung, feel good 70’s inspired track Particula which features South African rapper Nasty C and Nigerian recording artistes Jidenna and Ice Prince, and the afrobeat- and reggae-fused Let Me Live also by American artiste Rudimental featuring Anne-Marie & Mr Eazi. A host of other songs include All My Life featuring Burna Boy, Orkant/Balance Pon It featuring Babes Wodumo and directed by South Africa’s Adriaan Louw, and most recently Loyal, the Senegalese video showing off Dakar’s surf culture saw Kiss Daniel’s distinct voice with Kranium on a song that would be “the soundtrack to summer” if we had one. Wizkid’s 2017 track ‘Naughty Ride’ had Diplo featured as well, and that same year, the group issued their Know No Better EP, a representation of how different cultures can be combined to create a global dance music sound.  The band’s presence and sound has made an imprint on the continent, maintaining their edge as masters of cultural assimilation with huge turn outs to their concerts during their recent six-date tour on the continent which started off in South Africa. They packed out venues in Johannesburg and Malawi, Nigeria, Kenya, Ethiopia and Uganda from late September through early October, capping off each event with the waving flags from each country. However, with ongoing conversations around cultural appropriation, Major Lazer’s business model for a global sounding music label may rub some the wrong way, after all, they stand to benefit more given the hyper visibility accorded to foreign artistes who sample foreign cultures but not its people. Africa itself has been subject to the constant trope of being the source of inspiration for artistes to take their crafts further, and yet, a form of disregard still comes to play whenever the current acts stand on a global stage. Instances abound where African artistes are seen from perspectives from which only they stand to benefit but not contribute. For the longest time, musical acts from Africa were required to receive their award backstage until earlier this year when Nigerian artiste Davido was presented as the winner of the 2018 BET ‘Best International Act’ category on the BET main stage, and D’banj’s stint with Kanye West’s GOOD Music which saw a decline in the artiste’s musical prowess, except for a few highlights such as 2016’s Emergency, leaving the artiste with more endorsement deals, remains heavily on the minds of many. Kanye West, again, is visiting “what is known as Africa”, delaying the release of his new album, Yandhi, to finish recording in Uganda and this time, he is seen on a recording by music business veteran Bankulli who smiles gleefully while demanding, above speakers blasting Ye by Nigeria’s Burnaboy, that the artiste call him—an act which immediately gives off the notion that an international artiste has arrived for which he has the much-desired plug. This stance is one encapsulated in The Guardian Nigeria by Joey Akan who opines that musicians Nigerian singer Skales was “validated” when he “received” two minutes to join in their set in Lagos, continue to perpetuate the stereotype that relevance for the African artiste is only in proximity to a Western audience. “Think of the numerous musicians like Skales, in their respective countries, waiting for a chance to claim “international appreciation,” because of Major Lazer,” he said. But “international” is not a term reserved for American artists alone. Major Lazer may be using their platform to highlight other cultures, but the benefit is to their audience to whom these sounds are international. At the same time that they are being introduced to new audiences in respective African countries, the audience is also being introduced to them, some of whom did not even know that Major Lazer was made of three separate musical acts. Though there are numerous challenges with music rights, platforms and visibility, African acts are international artistes in their own right, and using global metrics to compare their rankings while developing their own metrics and platforms as echoed by artiste MI Abaga in his TED talk in August, would be more beneficial to them. There will be no more stories of white saviours saving Africans from the grasp of obscurity, especially in these times when they are the drivers of change. Just as streaming giant Spotify’s creation of an “Afrohub” section is not validation of an entire continent, but a logical step done to propagate their business due to demand generated by Africans on the continent and in diaspora, collaborations with African artistes should also be seen as benefiting for both parties. I believe the trio that make up Major Lazer share this is stance of mutual respect in business, and will live through the pitfalls of cultural appropriation due to this. On 12 September, Major Lazer released an Afrobeats mix that features music from their inspirations and collaborators throughout the continent including Nigeria’s Niniola and Davido, Ghana’s Sauti Sol and South Africa’s Babes Wodumo among many others. Nigeria’s Mr Eazi has also signed a deal with Diplo’s record label Mad Decent, and continues to work extensively with him across numerous projects.