Public governance progress in Africa is lagging behind the needs and expectations of the continent’s growing population, composed mainly of young people, the Mo Ibrahim Foundation has noted as it releases the 2018 Ibrahim Index of African Governance (IIAG), which provides an annual assessment of the quality of governance in African countries. However, Overall Governance has on average maintained a moderate upward trajectory over the last decade, with three out of four of Africa’s citizens (71.6 percent) living in a country where governance has improved. The four categories of the Ibrahim Index of African Governance are Safety & Rule of Law, Participation & Human Rights, Sustainable Economic Opportunity and Human Development. Each of these categories contain subcategories under which there are various indicators that provide quantifiable measures of the overarching dimensions of governance. Sustainable Economic Opportunity — defined as the extent to which governments enable their citizens to pursue economic goals and prosper — is the worst performing and slowest improving category of the four in the Index, with an African average score 0.2 percent since 2008, despite a continental increase in GDP of nearly 40 percent over the same period. Worse still, Africa’s population has increased by 26 percent over the last ten years and 60 percent of the continent’s 1.25 billion people are under the age of 25. Even countries like Nigeria, with the highest GDP in Africa sit in the lower half of the Sustainable Economic Opportunity rankings. The West African country is in the same boat with Algeria, Angola and Sudan, countries with some of the highest GDPs on the continent. While the giants sleep, two of the smallest economies on the continent, Seychelles and Cabo Verde, reach the 5th and 6th highest scores in providing Sustainable Economic Opportunity for their citizens. “We welcome progress in Overall Governance, but the lost opportunity of the past decade is deeply concerning,” said Mo Ibrahim, Chair of the Mo Ibrahim Foundation in his comment on the 2018 IIAG. “Africa has a huge challenge ahead. Its large and youthful potential workforce could transform the continent for
the better, but this opportunity is close to being squandered. The evidence is clear – young citizens of Africa need hope, prospects and opportunities. Its leaders need to speed up job creation to sustain progress and stave off
deterioration. The time to act is now.” The report highlights the deteriorating business environment in Africa at a time the continent’s working age (15-64 years old) is expected to grow by almost another 30 percent over the next ten years, a situation that will increase demand for jobs. It is bad enough that opportunities are far and in-between, yet, governments across the continent seem not to be doing enough to promote socio-economic integration of youth. Also, education outcomes are worsening across Africa. For 27 countries, education scores registered deterioration in the last five years, meaning that for more than half (52.8 percent) of Africa’s youth population, education outcomes are worsening. According to the report, the drop is driven by a fall in the indicators measuring whether education is meeting the needs of the economy, education quality, and citizens’ expectations of education provision. Generally, the African growth story while impressive has not been impactful enough. Hence, African governments need to focus on creating better opportunities so that citizens can benefit from the continent’s economic growth. Looking through the country scorecards as released as part of the 2018 IIAG, we selected four countries from different regions in Africa to highlight categories and sub-categories where they have done very well and others where they are not doing well enough and need to improve on. Nigeria
The country’s performance worsened in Rule of Law, Personal Safety and National Security. This is not surprising as the country still battles with terrorist group Boko Haram in its North East. There have also been clashes between farmers and Herdsmen in different parts of the country’s North. This week, there have been reports of clashes between security operatives and adherents of the Shia Islamic sect whose leader Ibrahim El Zakzaky has been incarcerated since 2015 despite a court ruling ordering his release. However, transparency and accountability has increased with the government led by President Muhammadu Buhari plugging holes through which public funds have been siphoned in the past. The country also recorded improvement in Participation and Human Rights, with impressive improvements in Gender and participation. Generally, Sustainable Economic Opportunity improved in the country, particularly in infrastructure and the rural sector, albeit with warning signs. More needs to be done in areas such as Public Management and Business Environment if the country will stand a chance of leaving the lower half of the rankings where it currently sits. In a country where social programs such as Conditional Cash Transfers and TraderMoni is being implemented, a growth in Human Development is expected. According to the Index, Nigeria improved in Welfare and Health, but it needs to do more to improve its educational sector. The country ranked 33rd on the index, with a score of 47.9. Click here to view data. South Africa
Safety and Rule of Law is worsening in South Africa. The country recorded negatives in Rule of Law, Transparency and Accountability, as well as Personal Safety. Its poor performance in some of these subcategories is not surprising considering that the immediate past president of South Africa is currently standing trial for different cases including corruption. National Security, however improved. The country did well in Participation and Human Rights, as well as in Human Development. While there is work to be done to improve Sustainable Economic Opportunity in the country, South Africa is not doing badly. Of the ten African countries with the largest GDP in 2017, only three feature in the ten highest performing in Business Environment in 2017: Kenya, Morocco and South Africa. Recent economic stimulus and economic growth plan disclosed by President Cyril Ramaphosa is expected to further improve economic opportunities in the country. South Africa ranked 7th on the index with a score of 68. Click here to view data. Rwanda
Rwanda recorded impressive overall governance in 2017, scoring 64.3 and ranking 8th out of 54 countries on the Index. The country is bouncing back in Safety and Rule of Law, with increasing improvement in Transparency and Accountability as well as Personal Safety. The East African nation is also showing increasing improvement in Sustainable Economic Opportunities. It was listed as one of the ten top performers in Transparency & Accountability and also among the ten highest scoring countries in Sustainable Economic Opportunity. The country is second only to Mauritius in Sustainable Economic Opportunities. Thanks to good policies and stability, Rwanda is one the four countries to record impressive GDP growth in the period 2008-2017 with equally impressive Sustainable Economic Opportunities. With the possibility of starting a business in hours, Rwanda had the highest score in Business Environment in Africa last year (83.6). Of the five best performing countries, only Rwanda has followed a positive trajectory over the decade (+9.5), scaling up from 2nd rank in 2008 to 1st in 2017. However, over the past five years Rwanda has also exhibited some warning signs, following a downward trajectory that could reverse the progress over the decade. Click here to view data.