At a recent board meeting in Lagos, members of the Diamond Bank Board of directors discussed the bank’s downward spiral. The Bank reported a loss of N9 billion ($24.8 million) in 2017, a year after it made a profit of N3.49 billion which in itself was a 61.67 percent drop from 2015. The board members were uncomfortable with the way things are going and they believe it was time for a shakeup. The discussions that happened in that boardroom led to the resignation of Diamond Bank’s chairman who was only appointed in July. Rotimi Oyekanmi, a non-executive director who only just offered himself for re-election onto the board at the Bank’s last annual general meeting also resigned, as did Juliet Anammah and Aisha Oyebode who joined the board in July 2017. Although, Diamond Bank did not provide any reason for its directors’ resignation, a source told The Nerve Africa that it was as a result of a heated argument over the dwindling fortunes of the bank since Uzoma Dozie, whose father founded the Bank, became its chief executive in 2014. Profit crashed to N3.49 billion in 2016 from N25.5 billion in 2014, the year Dozie took over. As if that was not bad enough, the bank crashed further to a loss of N9 billion owing to the “flight of customers’ deposit to government securities to take advantage of the elevated interest rate and a spike in interest expense, among other factors. In the same year, fellow mid-sized Nigerian bank Union Bank made a profit of N14.608 billion, FCMB N9.4 billion and Wema Bank N2.26 billion. Dozie’s inability to prove that he is the right man for the job after four years was said to have angered investors who are now ready to inject capital but want a slate wiped clean of Uzoma Dozie’s name.  The Bank’s single largest shareholder Carlyle Group’s Carlyle Sub-Saharan Africa Fund (CSSAF), with 17.75 percent, is believed to be the investor planning to recapitalise the bank, although there may be others. If CSSAF is planning to be more involved as suggested by our source, Dele Babade who currently represents the Fund on the Diamond Bank Board may be appointed chairman. Meanwhile, our source said that the central bank has called on the management and board of the bank with a view to resolving the issues that led to the resignation of the bank’s directors. Already, the MD/CEO, who is still on the first term of a possible two terms of five years each, is said to have hinted that he would leave the bank in January. Uzoma Dozie holds 26,489,005 ordinary shares of 50 kobo each directly and holds 848,872,310 shares indirectly through his father’s Kunoch Holdings, which holds a 9.25 percent stake in the bank. The Bank reported a profit after tax of N785 million in the first quarter of 2018 which further grew to N1.8 billion in the first half of 2018. The Bank is yet to release its Q3 results. But the early signs of recovery may not be enough to keep Dozie; the market reacted positively to news of a shakeup in the Bank. The shares grew 7.19 percent on Thursday to close at N1.49.