Although Nigeria is currently not a signatory to the African Continental Free Trade Area (ACFTA), the continent will host the 2018 Africa Trade Forum on Thursday and Friday, 2 and 3 November 2018 in Lagos State to discuss the potential economic developments that can be driven with the ACFTA. The trade forum will be hosted in Lagos by Nigeria’s Ministry of Industry, Trade and Investment and co-organised by the United Nations Economic Commission for Africa (UNECA), The Rockefeller Foundation, and the African Union Commission (AUC). Out of the 54 countries in Africa, 44 signed the deal. However, it can only come into force after 22 countries have ratified the agreement. So far, only eight countries have done so. If it happens, the unified trade aims at ensuring that all African Union countries involved would benefit from the welfare gains estimated to be about 2.64 percent of the continental GDP of $65 billion in 2018. At the dying minute of signing the deal early this year, Nigeria’s President Muhammadu Buhari cancelled his trip to Rwanda and confirmed that Nigeria will not sign the deal, saying the trade agreement must fairly and equitably represent the interest of the country. Nigeria’s Labour Congress (NLC) had opposed Nigeria being a signatory to the ACFTA saying signing the agreement was detrimental to the country’s economic interest and that the government did not consult widely on the matter. But with the hosting of the forum — a decision agreed upon by the Nigerian government to mobilize stakeholders in the Nigerian economy to understand details of the ACFTA, interpret its opportunities and reorganize the country’s economic system for coherence and coordination, according to Okechukwu Enelamah, Nigeria’s Minister of Industry, Trade and Investment — Nigeria is expected join other AU member states in signing the agreement and hopefully, expressly ratify it. Enelamah also noted that, if the opportunities of the African Continental Free Trade are to be realized and maximized, this Forum is a unique opportunity to proactively engage with a wide range of stakeholders to ensure that AfCFTA works for Nigeria. The success of the ACFTA will rest significantly on the ability of the continent’s private sector to generate or create the goods that will enter the trade, tackling challenges and opportunities of the individual African states and a better understanding of how the ACFTA can drive economic development and prosperity on the continent for all of Africa’s citizens. According to the Economic Commission for Africa (ECA) Executive Secretary, Vera Songwe, “in an age of trade wars, Africa is sending a strong message that trade deals and reforms can be approached through consensus-building and cooperation, leaving no one behind.” The Forum will bring together stakeholders from across the continent, from political and governance spheres, the private sector and entrepreneurs, philanthropies, academia, researchers, and development partners, to discuss the process for realizing the African Continental Free Trade Area.