The South African government has promised to support the country’s fruit-exporting sector as the most advanced economy in Africa works its way back to growth following a technical recession entered into last quarter as agricultural output, a major contributor to the South African economy fell 29.2 percent. Agriculture, Forestry and Fisheries (DAFF) Minister Senzeni Zokwana made the promise during a Produce Marketing Association (PMA) Fresh Fruit Summit 2018, held at the Orange County Convention Centre in Orlando, USA over the weekend. The annual summit brings more than 20,000 participants throughout the global fresh produce and floral supply chains, who come together as a community to learn, network, build relationships and do business. Zokwana announced at the official opening of the summit that current negotiations are in the final stages for extended access to citrus, as well as for avocadoes to the USA. He said that the USA has applied for access of apples and berries to the South African market. The Minister said that the South African Government promotes and supports growth in exports to increase foreign earnings which will stimulate the agricultural commercial sector to grow, create opportunities for small and emerging growers and exporters, and create jobs. “All of this is necessary to eradicate the triple ills of poverty, inequality and unemployment, and to bring about a prosperous sector and more equal society in South Africa,” Zokwana said. South Africa exports 2.7 million tons of fresh fruit per year to about 100 countries to the value of $3.4 billion.  Although only 4 percent of that volume is currently being exported to the USA, Zokwana said he envisages a growth in exports to the United States due to the recently awarded access for SA litchis to the USA, the imminent wider access for SA citrus fruit to the USA, the potential market access for SA avocadoes to the USA, and the potential import of SA table grapes, pears and apples through the Port of Virginia. Zokwana said that the DAFF also has a very good and long standing working relationship with United States Department of Agriculture (USDA) Animal and Plant Health Inspection Services (APHIS). According to him, through engagements with APHIS, South Africa intends to increase in volumes of fruit exported. “The government of South Africa is fully committed to supporting and sustaining a world-class supply chain system for the South African fresh produce and perishables sector. This can only be achieved by good relations with strategic partners which includes the USA. “As counter seasonal producers, there is a potential good match in fresh produce trade between South Africa and the United States. Especially, the South African fruit industry has a highly sophisticated supply chain that exports to sophisticated markets all over the world including the USA, the European Union and China,” the Minister said.