Abiy Ahmed has shown in his first few months as Ethiopia’s Prime Minister that he is committed to making Ethiopia attain its full potential. He has introduced reforms and appointed people who will help him ensure that the East African country continues to grow at the incredible pace it is currently growing but he needs the support of everyone, including Ethiopians abroad. Hence, he introduced the Ethiopian Diaspora Trust Fund (EDTF) which has now started accepting donations through its website. “If Diaspora Ethiopians could contribute at least $1 a day to the Fund, we can significantly improve the lives of the most vulnerable Ethiopians,” Ahmed stated while announcing that the Fund has gone live. Ahmed said the Fund could improve access to quality healthcare and education, clean drinking water and sanitation facilities, empower persons with disability, support small-scale agricultural activities and promote opportunities in the technology sector, among other things. He, therefore urged Diaspora Ethiopians who can donate more than $1 a day to do so, and in lump sums, so as to speed up funding of vital projects. The EDTF Advisory Council said it was aware of the eagerness of diaspora Ethiopians to respond to the prime minister’s call for donations, but it also urged “friends of Ethiopia and others interested in advancing freedom, democracy, human rights and good governance and the EDTF to make their $1 contributions in one lump sum payment of $365 to build-up contributions for immediate commitment to launch projects.” Ahmed has introduced several reforms that has won him the trust of Ethiopians home and abroad, as well as other Africans alike, who now see him as a model of leadership on the continent. From liberalizing sectors such as telecoms to taking land back from investors who promised jobs and failed, Ahmed has made Ethiopians proud, especially the Diaspora Ethiopians who can now talk about leadership and cite their country as an example of purposeful leadership. Ethiopia has been making steady progress towards eradicating poverty in the country, with poverty declining to 23.5 percent in 2016 from 45.5 percent in 2000. There have been tremendous expansion in access to social services such as education, health, water and sanitation as well as infrastructure including roads, railways, telecom and power generation among others. The EDTF is expected to build on gains made so far.