A company based in Western Cape South Africa, SA Rooibos Tea Supplies has disclosed its long-term mission to become the preferred supplier of packed rooibos to the European market over the next ten years. The company is currently exhibiting at the 27th Salon International de l’Alimentation (SIAL) Food Innovation Exhibition in Paris, France as part of a 38-member delegation led by South Africa’s Department of Trade and Industry (the dti). “We are a turn-key source, packer and exporter of South African herbal teas to the world and our company specialises not only in offering the refreshing rooibos and honeybush tea under our own trademark, but we offer it as a private label as well,” says the Managing Director of SA Rooibos, Mr Jacques Bester. Rooibos and honeybush (also known as Cyclopia), the sweeter tasting sibling of Rooibos, are inimitable products which only grow in South Africa and are gaining popularity as speciality teas across the globe. Rooibos and honeybush grow wild and are derived from the native fynbos, which only grows in the Western Cape and Eastern Cape along the Cederberg Mountains, the Cape Peninsula and Port Elizabeth. The fact that it only grows in specific regions on South African soil contributes to making rooibos and honeybush tea increasingly sought-after products. “Our company has been in operation for 20 years and employs 50 people. We operate from our plant in Gordons Bay and over the years we have steadily expanded our presence in the international market. We currently are exporting our products to Japan, South-Korea, Germany and the Netherlands. We intend on exporting to France soon,” Bester said. The world herbal tea market has continued to grow as people are becoming more aware of their health and are changing their lifestyles, gradually amplifying the importance of herbal tea. A large part of the population now prefers herbal tea over caffeinated forms of tea which have been said to cause prolonged ailments when caffeine accumulates in the body. According to a recent report, the global tea market was valued at around $49.5 billion in 2017 and is expected to reach approximately $73.1 billion by 2024, growing at a CAGR of around 4.5 percent between 2018 and 2024. According to the report, Europe is expected to show significant growth in the tea market. European tea market is mainly driven by high-quality specialty teas preference by rich class. European consumers prefer drinking a cup of high-quality tea rather than drinking pots of tea. Increasing the willingness of consumers to spend more on tea they drink has resulted in the premiumization of the tea market in the region which is expected to grow the global tea market growth. It is on this premise that SA Rooibos Tea Supplies has targeted Europe for growth. Bester said his company’s competitive strength lies in the fact that they aim to offer a value-added, superior finished product to the market.