Kenya’s Sh1 million($9,876) project that saw the distribution of 18 tonnes of free seed potatoes to farmers to boost potato production in the country has been a failure, as farmers record poor production once again. Potatoes are the second most important crop in the East African country after maize, employing about 2.5 million people across the entire production chain. The crop has the ability to produce large volumes of consumable products from a small unit area, making it an attractive commodity for enhancing food supply. However, potato yields in Kenya are low and a lack of quality seeds is believed to be responsible for this. Therefore, the importation of quality potato seeds has become essential to ensure short to medium-term food security, given that it might take up to 5-10 years before Kenya achieve enough production to satisfy growing demand. In February, the government distributed 18 tonnes of free seed potatoes to farmers for planting in March, so that by the August harvest season, there would by enough potatoes for consumption and the seed could be recouped and ready for the next planting season. Unfortunately, the harvest did not go as planned, as farmers recorded a massive loss due to poor weather that bred a myriad of diseases, pests, among others. According to Nyeri County Department for Agriculture, potatoes were planted on a total 22.5 acres, and 64 farmer groups benefited from the seed potatoes. Meanwhile, Standard media reported that only a handful of farmers benefited from the seeds that were hailed as a game changer for the industry. In some areas, farmers cumulatively received 32 bags of seeds but harvested only 4 bags. Another group of farmers received 30 bags of free potato seed to plant on 1.8 acres but they were unable to harvest a single bag and the entire investment was lost to a potato blight attack, waterlogging and flooding and severe late blight. According to the Department of Agriculture, of the 360 bags distributed, only 94 bags were harvested, making the seed recovery only 38 percent. It is estimated that potato is grown by 600,000 to 800,000 farmers and has a total production capacity of 1 to 1.4 million tonnes worth Sh30 billion ($296.4 million) to Sh40 billion ($395.2 million) per year. However, regardless of the high potential of potatoes to contribute to employment creation and poverty alleviation, potato farmers have not been able to earn much unlike their maize counterparts.