Companies from Ethiopia, the Gambia, Kenya, Mozambique, Nigeria, Rwanda, Senegal, Uganda and Zambia are part of the 100 companies to be supported by the International Trade Centre (ITC) to participate in the China International Import Expo (CIIE) scheduled for 5-10 November 2018. ITC’s contribution to CIIE is part of a long-term partnership with China in support of South-South cooperation and trade competitiveness, focusing on least developed countries in Africa and Asia. “For the companies we are supporting to attend, the event provides a unique opportunity to tap into the huge potential offered by the Chinese market,” said ITC Executive Director Arancha González. “For developing and least developed countries, the CIIE is an opportunity to be exposed to new export markets and increase their competitiveness through trade.” While in Shanghai, the companies will have the opportunity to showcase their products and services, establishing new contacts with potential business partners and exploring how to tap into the Chinese market. In cooperation with its partners, ITC has been preparing the selected companies to participate in global trade fairs and familiarize themselves with Chinese market requirements, with dedicated e-learning courses on exporting to China, offered through ITC’s SME Trade Academy platform. To ensure the companies maximize the opportunity, a number of ITC experts will provide continued advisory support to them throughout the event, helping them to set up their booths and manage their business interactions with visitors and professional buyers. In addition to organizing the participation of MSMEs in the Expo, ITC will also hold a side event related to the Partnership for Investment and Growth in Africa (PIGA) project. This will explore how to facilitate sustainable foreign investments in the agro-processing and light manufacturing sectors in Ethiopia, Kenya, Mozambique and Zambia. A study on the opportunities and drivers for trade expansion between China and Belt and Road countries in the Asia-Pacific region will also be released in conjunction with CIIE. Representatives from some 150,000 companies from more than 100 countries are expected to participate in this first edition of the CIIE. Some of the African companies participating include Ugandan IT Systems Consultancy Preg-Tech Communications Ltd., knowledge support agency Tefa Solutions of The Gambia, Zambia’s DaisyMeats Ltd., Rwanda’s Gashora Farm Ltd., Kenya’s Nyumbani Coffee and Ethiopia’s Petram Plc.