French multinational rail transport company Alstom has begun shipment of 15 Coradia Polyvalent trains destined for Senegal from its site in Reichshoffen, France following a successful completion of production and on-site tests and validation by customer APIX, the Senegalese State investment and public works agency. The first train, which is being transported to the port of Le Havre in France for loading aboard the “Grande Angola” — a cargo ship which is currently sailing north of the Atlantic Ocean — is expected to arrive at the port of Dakar on 12 November. According to a statement by Alstom, the bogies and cars will be reassembled at the rolling stock maintenance site at Colobane depot, three kilometres from Dakar, before static and dynamic tests begin. “The departure of the Coradia trains for Dakar is the crowning achievement of the tests conducted at Reichshoffen. It bears witness to the commitment of all Alstom teams to meeting our customers’ needs and expectations. We are proud to contribute to this important mobility project that will place Dakar among the first African cities to acquire such technology,” said Raphael Bernardelli, Alstom’s MD North & Central Africa. “We highly appreciate the on-time in-full delivery of Alstom. We are therefore delighted with the respect of the delivery schedule, especially for the trains, complying with the planning as previously decided by His Excellency Mr. Macky SALL, President of the Republic of Senegal. The ambition of His Excellency Mr. Macky SALL is to provide Senegal with a state-of-the-art transportation solution through the Regional Express Train,” said Mr Mountaga SY, Managing Director of APIX. Alstom’s Coradia Polyvalent trains are part of the Regional Express Train Project (TER), a flagship element of the Plan for an Emerging Senegal policy framework. The 15 trains will help satisfy the increasing need for mobility in Dakar and will run on a new line connecting the centre of the city to the new Blaise Diagne International Airport. They will serve 14 stations over 55 km, which they will cover in 45 minutes. The number of daily passengers is expected to be up to 115,000. As part of the Emerging Senegal policy framework, APIX had in 2016 selected ENGIE and Thales to design and build systems and infrastructures for the new Dakar Regional Express Train in a contract valued at €225 million and expected to be completed in 26 months. The Coradia Polyvalent for Senegal is a mainline dual-mode train (diesel and electric-25kV) capable of running at speeds of 160 km/h. With a total length of 72 metres, the train has four cars and offers a maximum capacity of 531 passengers distributed through first and second class. More than 2,800 Coradia trains have been sold so far and around 2,300 are currently in service. Countries around Africa have in recent times committed to improving rail transportation, the cheapest form of transportation, which is seen as key in promoting their social and economic development. South Africa has increased its investment in rail infrastructure in recent times, announcing recently that it was building a $70 million train factory. Nigeria has also expended billions of dollars on improving its rail infrastructure.