The Democratic Republic of Congo has accused Angola of violently repatriating and killing thousands of Congolese during a crackdown on artisanal diamond mining. Angola has denied all allegations saying it acted lawfully to protect is resources. Congolese spokesman Lambert Mende said “The Democratic Republic of Congo’s government condemns the human rights violations and the loss of human lives provoked by the expulsions.” On 1 October, Angola began a mass expulsion of Congolese from its territory, mostly from the Lunda-Norte Province which is the border of the two neighbouring countries. As part of its “Operation Transparency” crackdown, a National Police effort in seven provinces meant to curb illegal mining and migration, 67 diamond mines were shut down. Since the beginning of the mass expulsion, at least 3,300 people have been killed and forced to return to DRC. Villages have been destroyed and women raped by militia and soldiers, but the Angolan government denies any forced expulsion as it maintains its stance that many Congolese migrants left voluntarily. Between 1 October and 17 October, the Congolese city of Kamako in Kasaï Province has registered approximately 200,000 returnees through the border crossing posts of Kamako, Mayanda, Tshimbulu or Kabungu. Just last Friday, officials said they witnessed the arrival of over 16,000 people through Kamako border post. Even the United Nations Migration Agency, International Organization for Migration (IOM) says it has provided humanitarian assistance to 3,000 Congolese nationals who were forced to return after series of robberies and incidents of forced family separations. Angola has been an attractive destination for Congolese migrants because the oil-rich nation offers better employment prospects and is relatively more stable than DRC which is witnessing unrest and violence unleashed by rebel groups and militias from within and neighbouring nations. Some of the migrants moved to Angola to work in the artisanal diamond extraction industry. Angola and DR Congo have a difficult history on the issue of illegal Congolese migration for economic reasons and Angolan officials have been aggressively deporting Congolese migrants from the diamond-rich Lunda Norte region since 2004 a September 2015 USAID report stated. The dispute comes at a time of a strain in the relationship between DR Congo’s President, Joseph Kabila and his close ally, the Angolan President, João Lourenço. 20 years ago, Angola rescued Kabila’s father, Laurent Kabila, who was then president from a Rwanda-backed rebel assault. Relations between the two countries was smooth until recently when Angola became frustrated by Kabila junior’s handling of several crises, including instability caused by his failure to step aside when his mandate ended late 2016, leading to conflict in Congo’s Kasai province that sent thousands of refugees to Angola.