A satellite data by a United Kingdom non-governmental environmental organization, Greenpeace reveals that Mpumalanga province in South Africa tops the chart as the world’s largest Nitrogen Dioxide (NO2) hotspot across six continents. Of the top countries and cities with the largest NO2 hotspots in the world, including Germany, India and China with coal-fired power plants and industrial clusters, South Africa tops the list, no thanks to a high concentration of coal power stations and weak air pollution standards. Cities such as Santiago de Chile, London, Paris, Dubai and Tehran also rank high due to transport-related emissions. Nitrogen Dioxide (NO2) is a chemical compound introduced into the environment by natural causes, including an entry from the stratosphere, bacterial respiration, volcanos, and lightning. It plays a role in absorbing sunlight and regulating the chemistry of the troposphere, especially in determining ozone concentrations. It is classified as an extremely hazardous substance, such that direct exposure can cause respiratory effects including airway inflammation in healthy people, skin irritations and burns and increased respiratory symptoms in people with asthma. The satellite data gathered within a three-month period from 1 June to 31 August this year reveals that Mpumalanga has overtaken Witbank area in South Africa which had the world’s dirtiest air to become the number one hotspot for NO2 emissions. “The high technology satellite data confirms that South Africa has the most polluting cluster of coal-fired power stations in the world which is both disturbing and very scary,” said Melita Steele, Senior Climate and Energy Campaign Manager for Greenpeace Africa. Mpumalanga is home to a cluster of 12 coal-fired power plants with a total capacity of over 32 gigawatts owned and operated by Eskom. Compared with many other countries, South Africa has relatively weak Minimum Emission Standards (MES) that allow coal-fired power stations to emit up to 10 times more NO2 than allowed in China or Japan. Even with the weak MES, the majority of Eskom’s ancient and highly polluting coal-fired power stations still do not comply with the required MES. In 2015, Eskom was granted a five-year postponement from complying with MES. In 2018 Eskom has again applied for postponements for nitrogen oxides for 16 of its 19 power plants (including 14 coal-fired power plants and 2 liquid fuel power plants). In 2016, UK-based air quality and health expert Dr Mike Holland assessed the health impacts and associated economic costs of current emissions of just one type of pollutant from Eskom’s coal-fired power stations (PM2.5), and discovered that Eskom emissions result in more than 2,200 equivalent attributable deaths every year, and cause thousands of cases of bronchitis and asthma in adults and children annually. In defense, Eskom noted it had adopted a phased approach to compliance with the MES because there was insufficient funding, water, and outage opportunities available in the short term.