Weeks ago, German Chancellor Angela Merkel and British Prime Minister Theresa May visited some countries in Africa. One of the major issues they discussed during the period is the need to deepen economic and security cooperation with countries across the continent with the hope that when their countries become more stable and their economies improve, more Africans would rather stay at home than take up illegal means of getting out of their countries. The perspective is similar across Europe. The European Union (EU) has a Sahel Strategy through which it supports the Sahel countries – Burkina Faso, Chad, Mali, Mauritania, and Niger – in areas of shared interest such as security, migration, terrorism, the humanitarian response, resilience building and long-term development. Norway, which though in the European region is not a member of the EU, is stepping up its efforts in the Sahel — the belt of land that stretches from West Africa to Sudan along the southern ‘shore’ of the Sahara Desert. The Norwegian government is launching a strategy for the country’s efforts in the Sahel region for the period 2018-2020, which was developed in dialogue with other relevant ministries, Norwegian organisations and expert groups, as well as international partners such as the UN, the EU, the African Union and other European countries. “Because of its proximity to Europe, the situation in the Sahel is important for Europe. That is why we are taking an integrated approach to the region,” said Ine Eriksen Søreide Minister of Foreign Affairs. “We want to combine intensified diplomatic and political efforts with measures to promote security and development.” The country has already established cooperation with Mali and Niger, with a considerable part of its development efforts concentrated in these two countries. Norway opened a new embassy in the Malian capital of Bamako in January 2018, as part of its intensified efforts in the region. The Sahel region is facing significant security, humanitarian and development challenges. Weak state structures and porous borders have enabled Islamist terrorist groups to gain a foothold in the region. Conflicts are threatening stability in several of the region’s countries and have caused the civilian population enormous suffering. The human cost of people smuggling and irregular migration to Europe through the Sahel is huge. The new strategy is based a number of recent white papers, Norway’s new humanitarian strategy and the strategic framework for the country’s engagement in conflict prevention, stabilisation and resilience building in countries and regions affected by conflict and fragility.