Zimbabwe’s Treasury wants to drastically reduce the country’s National Budget deficit in 2019 by limiting Government borrowing from the central bank, tightening of Treasury Bills issuances, eliminating ghost workers, as well as cutting travel and wage bills. In a pre-Budget Strategy Paper approved by the country’s Cabinet on Tuesday, Finance and Economic Development Minister Professor Mthuli Ncube said re-orientation of expenditures from consumptive spending to developmental priorities would be key in the 2019 Budget. According to him, the government will right-size public employment, rationalise posts in the public service, strengthen wage bill management, reduce travel expenditures and review expenditures on fuel benefit levels from January 2019. The Zimbabwean Treasury will also reduce acquisition and provision of vehicles by the State, enforce measures on the use of Government Operational Vehicles by public officers, rationalise foreign service missions, limit expenditures on by-elections and review parliamentary sitting allowances. MPs in Zimbabwe are paid $2,000 monthly salaries and $75 sitting allowances. They also get some funds to develop their constituencies. Last year, while protesting non-payment of Constituency Development Fund (CDF) since 2011, one member of parliament MP Prosper Chapfiwa Mutseyami complained that the government had done nothing about the welfare of the MPs. “We were also promised iPads before Christmas last year, but now, we are going to another Christmas without iPads,” the MP said. Ncube is expected to frown at such requests. “The 2019 Budget Strategy Paper proposes drastic reduction of the budget deficit to 5.2 percent of Gross Domestic Product (GDP) in 2019, and subsequently to 3.5 percent in 2020 and 3.1 percent of GDP by 2021, making us comply with the SADC threshold of below 3 percent of GDP,” the Minister said. Noting that international best practice and SADC adopted thresholds for sustainable public indebtedness are pegged at 60 percent of the GDP,  with the Public Debt Management Act requiring that total outstanding Public and Publicly Guaranteed Debt as a ratio of GDP should not exceed 70 percent at the end of any fiscal year, Prof Ncube stressed the need for Zimbabwe to contain fiscal deficit. He noted that among the measures to contain the budget deficit was limiting government borrowing from the central bank which surpassed the stipulated 20 percent of GDP in 2017 to end at 27 percent. Hence, the government will institute a new Treasury Bill Issuance Framework to ensure that Treasury Bills are issued in line with approved borrowing requirements. “Issuances of Treasury Bills will, therefore, be strictly aligned to the parliamentary approved borrowing requirements, and votes under an Appropriation Act,” Prof. Ncube said. “This will ensure that no expenditure of public monies is incurred on any service where provision has not been made by or in terms of the Public Finance Management Act or any other enactment.” Ncube has been introducing a series of reforms since he was appointed Finance Minister last month. Earlier in October, the former African Development Bank economist announced a new tax on electronic payments which President Emmerson Mnangagwa called a painful but necessary part of the government’s attempts to revive the economy. The government is also focusing on increasing investment in infrastructure, removing bottlenecks to trade and growing entrepreneurship in line with the thrust of a private sector-led growth and development which Zimbabwe targets.