Countries in sub-Saharan Africa are working hard to improve their economies. They are doing this by making it easier to do business in their respective countries. This is evident in the new Doing Business report released today by the World Bank. Doing Business 2019 measured the processes for business incorporation, getting a building permit, obtaining an electricity connection, transferring property, getting access to credit, protecting minority investors, paying taxes, engaging in international trade, enforcing contracts and resolving insolvency. Algeria and Angola made getting electricity easier, Benin and Côte d’Ivoire improved access to credit, Djibouti and Ethiopia made starting a business easier, while Ghana and Gabon made dealing with construction permits safer and less expensive. There were different improvements across board which supports a report by the Mo’ Ibrahim foundation that overall governance in Africa is improving. Of the 190 countries measured, 10 African countries was ranked among the top 100 countries on the ease of doing business list. Mauritius topped the African chart at the 20th rank with an ease of doing business score of 79.58, followed by Rwanda (77.88) at the 29th position. Morocco, Kenya and Tunisia followed at 60th, 61st and 80th rank respectively. Togo, Djibouti, Kenya, Ivory Coast and Rwanda improved the most in Africa. These four African countries and six others across the world together implemented 53 regulatory reforms making it easier to do business. Togo made starting a business easier by reducing the minimum capital requirement, introducing an online platform for company name search, reducing the registration fees and allowing entrepreneurs to pay the fees directly at the one-stop shop. The West African country also made dealing with construction permits safer, improved the monitoring and regulation of power outages and  made getting electricity less costly. The country also reduced the time needed to transfer property, made paying taxes and enforcing contracts easier.  Likewise, Djibouti a country now at peace with neighbours in the Horn of Africa due to a peace move brokered by long-term partner Ethiopia, is also introducing reforms to make it easier to do business. Now, it’s easier to start a business in Djibouti, transfer property or access credit. The country has also made enforcing contracts and resolving insolvency easier, while it  strengthened minority investor protections. Kenya has been improving in ease of doing business over the years but the country has not stopped introducing reforms that will keep the country as an important business destination. In the year under review, the East African country made registering property easier by introducing an online system to clear land rent rates. It also strengthened access to credit by introducing a new law on secured transactions that created a unified secured transactions legal framework. It has also strengthened for protecting minority investors by increasing disclosure requirements, regulating the approval of transactions with interested parties and increasing available remedies if said transactions are prejudicial, increasing shareholders’ rights and role in major corporate decisions and requiring greater corporate transparency. Kenya made paying taxes easier by merging all permits into a single unified business permit and by simplifying the value added tax schedule on its iTax platform. The country has also made resolving insolvency easier by facilitating the continuation of the debtor’s business during insolvency proceedings, providing for equal treatment
of creditors in reorganization. Despite their impressive improvements, sub-Saharan African economies scored significantly lower than other economies, especially in the areas of trading across borders and getting electricity. The economies that ranked highest in the ease of doing business are those that have consistently well-designed business regulation or whose regulatory environments have thrived thanks to comprehensive reforms over the years. Meanwhile, a total of 107 reforms were captured across 40 economies in Sub-Saharan Africa, and it was discovered that the average time and cost to register a business has reduced from 59 days and 192 percent of income per capita in 2006 to 23 days and 40 percent of income per capita today. The report also noted that the average paid-in minimum capital has fallen from 212 percent of income per capita to 11 percent of income per capita in the same period. Since 2012, Sub-Saharan Africa has been the region with the highest number of reforms and many economies have shown notable improvements. The African economies with the most notable improvement in Doing Business 2019 are Djibouti, Kenya, Côte d’Ivoire, and Rwanda which showed tremendous improvement this year compared to last year. Realities of Small and Medium Enterprises (SMEs) face drastically different realities across economies. In Uganda, an entrepreneur will spend nearly a month and undertake 13 procedures to set up a new company, after which the entrepreneur will be required to manage another 18 interactions with different agencies and then will have to wait an additional four months to obtain a building permit. In 2006 the average time to start a business in Sub-Saharan African economies were 59 days but today the average time is 23 days, significantly closer to the high-income economy average of 9 days. Since 2006 low-income economies have reduced the time to pay taxes by only 29 hours on average. The report also showed that the most difficult places to do business in Africa are Somalia, Eritrea, South Sudan, the Democratic Republic of Congo and the Central African Republic.