The world’s largest emerald miner, Gemfields’ Kagem Mine, found an exceptionally rare high quality gem that weighs more than 1.1 kilograms at its mine in Lufwanyama, Zambia on 2 October. The stone is almost twice the size of the world’s biggest ever rough diamond, the Cullinan, discovered near Pretoria in South Africa in 1905. However, since large emeralds are far more common and are hard to value, it is unlikely to be worth as much. Emeralds were previously mainly produced by artisanal miners, leaving retailers without a consistent supply. Emerald prices have climbed in recent years as Gemfields, which also produces rubies in Mozambique, boosted advertising in a bid to expand the market for the green stones. Dubbed ‘Inkalamu’, meaning ‘lion’ in the local Bemba language, the emerald is already creating a buzz in the global gemstone industry ahead of its auction in Singapore next month. “The discovery of this exceptional gemstone is such an important moment both for us and for the emerald world in general” commented Gemfields’ London-based gemmologist Elena Basaglia according to ZambiaReports. “We are experiencing strikingly increased demand for high quality Zambian emeralds from the major brands, particularly in Europe, all of whom admire the rich colour and unique transparency of our gems – qualities that make them unique among emeralds. It’s difficult to estimate how many individual gems will be cut from Inkalamu, but the cutting expertise of Gemfields’ auction partners will mean that this gemstone will make its mark in the history books of exceptional gemstones. This lion’s resulting offspring – ‘The Pride of Inkalamu’ so to speak – will continue the legacy for generations to come!” The naming of uncut emeralds is a tradition reserved for the rarest and most remarkable gems. The ‘Lion’ emerald will be offered for sale at Gemfields’ next auction in Singapore in November 2018 to approximately 45 approved auction partners, chosen by Gemfields for their shared values in responsible practices, and given the value placed by end consumers on understanding the origin and journey of their gemstones, the ‘Lion’ emerald will benefit from the Gübelin Gem Lab’s ‘Provenance Proof’ nanotechnology whereby nano-sized particles encoded with the mine-of-origin will allow identification of the gemstone’s birthplace for decades to come.