Bharti Airtel said, Wednesday, that its African subsidiary, Airtel Africa will get $1.25 billion funding from global investors comprising Warburg Pincus, Temasek, Singtel and SoftBank Group International as it continues working to reduce its debt of approximately $5 billion and to grow its African operations. The company also said it plans to list on an international stock exchange. In a statement, the company noted that, apart from Softbank and private equity firm Warburg Pincus, Singapore-based Temasek Holdings and Singtel Telecommunications and two other investors will invest by subscribing to new shares. The transaction, however, will not involve any sale of shares by existing shareholders. The $1.25 billion would be invested through a primary equity issuance in the company at a post-money equity value of around $ 4.4 billion. According to Raghunath Mandava, MD and CEO of Bharti Airtel Africa, “This primary equity issuance clearly underlines the confidence of leading global investors in Airtel Africa’s successful business strategy and its potential to sustain growth and profitability. The transaction will help us further deleverage our balance sheet and boost our capacity to upgrade networks, expand coverage in different markets and achieve rapid growth of Airtel Money across our operations.” Airtel Africa has seen its business improve in recent years, growing stronger to help parent company Bharti Airtel mitigate the impact of a tariff war going on in its base in India. Airtel Africa provides telecommunication services in 15 African countries and Nigeria is the company’s most profitable African market, followed by Ghana. As of March 2017, Airtel had 78 million subscribers on the African continent, but its parent company Bharti Airtel has not had it easy in India in recent times. The company controlled by Indian billionaire Sunil Mittal saw net debt rose to $14.6 billion (about 45 percent) over four years as the company bought spectrum with borrowed funds and fought to ward off the challenge posed by new telco Reliance Jio Infocomm Ltd owned by fellow billionaire Mukesh Ambani who started a tariff war. Bharti Airtel’s rising debt along with an eight-quarter-long earnings declines has put it at risk of a downgrade to junk by both S&P Global Ratings and Moody’s Investors Service. However, the market reacted well to the announcement of the new funding for Bharti Airtel’s African business as its stock closed 10.79 percent higher on the Bombay Stock Exchange(BSE).