The football governing body FIFA announced 27 October that the jersey worn by Nigeria captain Mikel Obi at the 2018 World Cup has been added to its museum collection. “The jersey worn by John Mikel Obi at Nigeria’s 2-0 victory at the Volgograd Arena at the 2018 World Cup has been added to the FIFA Museum collection,” the governing body wrote on its Instagram page. “Argentina couldn’t claim three points against hardy newcomers, Iceland, but the Super Eagles did – and they did it in style,” the statement continued.   Argentina couldn’t claim three points against hardy newcomers, Iceland, but the @NG_Supereagles did – and they did it in style  . The jersey worn by @Mikel_John_Obi at Nigeria’s 2-0 victory at the Volgograd Arena at the 2018 World Cup has been added to the FIFA Museum collection  . #SuperEagles #WorldCup #Russia2018 #worldcup2018 #volgograd #Nigeria #Iceland #FootballKit #Football #Soccer #FootballHistory A post shared by  FIFA World Football Museum (@fifamuseum) on Oct 27, 2018 at 5:10am PDT When Nigeria beat Iceland at the Volgograd stadium, they created a fair race against Argentina for second place in Group D. The Super Eagles were the first team to beat Iceland at the World Cup in Russia before defeats to Croatia and Argentina ended their journey at the group stage, thus earning the skipper a place in the gallery. Mikel Obi has a CAF Africa Cup of Nations winner’s medal, experience at Brazil 2014 and leading the Nigeria to Olympic bronze at Rio 2016 on his résumé, “Many will have been used to seeing John Obi Mikel as the hard-working midfield figure laying the foundations for his more creative counterparts during a decade at Chelsea,” a profile of the footballer by FIFA reads. “However, with the Super Eagles, their talismanic captain plays a very different role. Having accrued almost as many goals and assists in green in just 20 percent of his appearances in London blue, he is the man who makes the team tick.” The world football governing revealed that the shirt will be at the museum located in Zurich.