The world’s fastest man Usain Bolt has bagged his first goals as a footballer for A-League’s Central Coast Mariners  with two goals during a friendly match against MacArthur South West United on Friday as his trial period for the Australian A-League side continues. The 32-year-old has been open about his hopes of securing a full-time footie contract in his quest to become a professional footballer. Scoring 10 minutes into the second half with a left-footed finish, he scored the second by capitalizing on a defensive error in the pre-season friendly in Campbelltown. “My first start and scoring two goals, it’s a good feeling,” Bolt told Fox Sports. “I’m happy I could come here and show the world I’m improving. I’m keen to be a Mariner, to play my best and get into the team.” The Olympic sprinter marked the goals by striking the famous ‘lightning bolt’ pose usually reserved for track victories. “Anything is possible don’t think limits,” he later posted to social media. Bolt, who still holds the current 9.58 seconds world 100m record, called time on his track career in 2017, turning the focus on developing his professional football career. Anything is possible don’t think limits pic.twitter.com/bcLgxnBB8x — Usain St. Leo Bolt (@usainbolt) October 12, 2018  In August, Bolt made his debut for the Mariners, coming off the bench during a 6-1 pre-season rout against amateur outfit Central Coast Select. The Mariners will offer Bolt a permanent deal should he impress enough during his trial. “I think I made some slight mistakes but I’m just happy to get the chance and I’m proud of myself,” Bolt told Fox Sports after his withdrawal on 75 minutes. “Scoring a goal in your first proper match is a big deal. It was a good feeling.” “I think I’ve improved in every area,” Bolt said. “I think my touch is that little bit better; my vision needs to improve a little bit more. I think my running off the ball is where I’ve improved most.” Since August, the Jamaican has been on an “indefinite training period” with the Mariners, which plays its season opener next Sunday. Bolt has been limited to pre-season appearances from the bench but head coach Mike Mulvey gave the 32-year-old his first start against Macarthur South West United on Friday 12 October. During his eight-year Olympic reign as the world’s fastest man, Bolt won an Olympic “triple double,” clinching golds in the 100 and 200 meters in Beijing, London and Rio. Though the Mariners represent Bolt’s greatest chance of playing professional football to date, the club has previously clarified that the agreement “does not guarantee a professional playing contract.”