Kenya and Uganda have created a joint commission to determine ownership of a disputed island in Lake Victoria. Pending when the ownership is certain, the two countries agree to co-manage the island. The lake which has a shoreline of 7,142 kilometres is divided among three countries, Kenya 4,100 square kilometres, Uganda 31,000 square kilometres and Tanzania 33,700 square kilometres. Uganda’s 17 million people, most of whom depend on agriculture for their livelihood has the highest concentration of people found in the districts surrounding Lake Victoria Crescent, where land fertility and levels of agricultural development are comparatively high. According to the United Nations Children’s Fund (UNICEF), there are 165 lakes in the country and Lake Victoria is among the largest and most productive, thanks to the Nile perch. The Nile perch is a species of freshwater fish. It is widespread throughout much of the Afrotropic ecozone of Congo, Nile, Senegal, Niger and Lake Chad, Volta, Lake Turkana, and other river basins. This freshwater fish was introduced to Lake Victoria in the 1950s to boost the fishing industry. The introduction of the Nile perch caused an economic boom, an economic crisis between Uganda and Kenya as well a near extinction of Cichlids, a native fish. Developments in Kenya have directly affected Uganda, causing Uganda to harvest less than half of Kenya’s freshwater fish catch despite a larger owning a percentage of the lake. Kenya’s portion of Lake Victoria waters is six percent, while Uganda has 45 percent and Tanzania 49 percent. However, the ever-growing appetite for the Nile perch has led to an increase in the number of Kenyan processing plants on Lake Victoria, leading to a perceived imbalance in the Nile perch trade and a dispute between Kenya and Uganda. In Kenya, Lake Victoria is leading in fish production at 143,908 metric tons followed by Lake Turkana at 4,559 metric tons annually. Nile perch remains the main-stay of fisheries export market and account for over 80 percent of fish export in the country. Currently, Kenya’s fishing industry is earning the country approximately KS6.5 billion ($64.32 million) and contributes 0.5 percent of GDP. For Uganda, Lake Victoria Nile perch fishery generates annual exports worth about $41 million. In 2012, fishers harvested 278,675 tons of Nile perch, while 15,996 tons were harvested through fish farms. Overfishing and a lack of sustainable food resources like the cichlids and other fish have contributed to the decline of the Nile perch population in Lake Victoria. The trade imbalance has led to a series of conflict between Kenya and Uganda, both of whom are dragging ownership of the island. The conflict has majorly been between Kenya’s police and Uganda’s marine. On one of such occasions, Kenyan rioters uprooted Uganda’s rail link to the Kenyan port of Mombasa. This affected the commercial interests of Rwanda, Burundi and the Democratic Republic of Congo. The countries involved hope that the new commission will help settle the disagreement and see benefits accrue where due.