For many, Black Friday is the day where you get to shop at a cheaper price because retailers are in a race to the lowest pricing and the prices of goods are slashed by up to 50 percent or more, making people scramble at the idea of a good deal but what people fail to understand is that they are not actually saving money by shopping on Black Friday. Consumers, as well as retailers, spend an entire year planning their Black Friday sales and purchases. Retailers, majorly online retailers, use Black Friday as an opportunity to sell off their black log of goods and seasonal items like Christmas decorations and holiday gifts by putting the items on sales and offering discount prices for them. The Black Friday in November coupled with the Christmas holiday in December accounts for as much as 30 percent of retailers’ annual sales as this is always the busiest shopping period for stores. History of Black Friday Black Friday is a name coined for the day that comes after the United States of America’s Thanksgiving holiday, the fourth Thursday of November. This day has traditionally been a holiday for many employees who use it to do a lot of shopping, it is a day full of special shopping deals and heavy discounts and is considered the kickoff of the holiday shopping season. Prior to the unofficial adoption of the name, historically, Black Friday was a stock market catastrophe that took place on 24 September 1869. On that day, financiers Jay Gould and James Fisk took advantage of their connections with the Grant Administration in an attempt to corner the gold market and began stock speculation, leading to the price of gold plummeting and the markets crashing. Over the years, the nature of shopping has evolved from physical to online shopping. Black Friday evolved from congested streets, crowded stores and shoppers fighting over parking spaces to sitting in the comfort of your home and swiping at things you intend to buy. In 2017, online sales rose 18 percent, hitting a record of $7.9 billion. 40 percent of these purchases were done from mobile phones, a 29 percent increase in 2016. It’s not about you Recently, Black Friday sales have transcended a one-day shopping event as some retailers have made it a one-week affair and shopping platforms like Jumia make theirs as long as a month, spanning from the beginning of November all through to the end of the month. From the beginning of the Ember months, these platforms begin to bombard people with advertisements of deals and discounts with up to 80 percent off. These advertisements and promotional marketing makes it easy to get caught up in the retail frenzy, knowingly or unknowingly because the adverts are everywhere and it is almost as if everyone has something on sale for the best price. Everyone likes a bargain, so it’s no surprise that Black Friday has seen a surge in popularity and spending. According to a 15-year retail sales data compiled by the National Retail Federation, the average Black Friday annual sales increase is 2.5 percent. This 2.5 percent increase over the 15-year period is quite low because of the steep 4.6 percent decline in 2008 caused by the global financial crisis. Before the 2008 financial crisis, the 10-year average annual increase was 3.5 percent. Over the past 5 years, the popularity and the interest of people towards Black Friday have been growing in Africa’s largest economies, Nigeria and South Africa. According to Black Friday Global survey, 23 percent of Nigerians will participate in Black Friday in 2018, a 4 percent increase from 2017. 66 percent of the shoppers would shop online, 10.5 percent will opt for the traditional offline-only shopping and the remaining 23.5 percent will go for the multi-channel option. Comparatively, in 2017 the percentage of shoppers who choose to shop at brick and mortar stores only was higher by almost a third, increasing from 10.5 percent to 15 percent. The number of online transactions on Black Friday increased significantly when compared to the regular day. In South Africa, users have made 2,571 percent more purchases than usual on Black Friday compared to every other Friday, the highest in Africa followed by Nigeria with 1,342 percent increase on Black Friday. In 2016, Black Friday boosted retail sales in South Africa by 3.8 percent. This tells you that Black Friday is not about you but about boosting retail sales.  The increase during the Black Friday is majorly attributed to the hype. Many stores slash prices on obscure products just to get people to buy from them, some stores increase the normal price of an item before the Black Friday to make the discount seem deeper, some start long before the date, while many give discounts on older model of most products, all these some stores do to increase sales. According to The Wall Street Journal, retailers will slightly increase the “normal” price of an item in the days before their Black Friday sales so that the discounts appear deeper. Wall Street Journal reported an 8 percent increase in a fifth of the sale items it tracked before Black Friday and a 23 percent uptick in the pre-sale prices of toys and tools. Statistics show that men are more likely to shop on Black Friday than women, and to spend an average of 3 percent more. Age also a huge contributory factor to the Black Friday spending as those in the 50  to 65-year bracket spend nearly 75 percent more than those between ages 18 to 25. Reasons to hold back On the surface level, these discounts may look like great bargains, but it’s still money you probably wouldn’t have spent. A research on decision making shows that most people spend regardless of their lack of need for the product out of future regret. The fear of future regret influences most of the decision making. Unfortunately, the fear of regret hardly produces productive decision making as people have reported that they felt more regret for actions that led to bad outcomes than bad outcomes that occurred from failing to act. A good reason to hold back from spending that money because of a supposed great deal on Black Friday is that the best deals are not gotten on Black Friday. Many retailers offer deals weeks before the shopping day, upstaging Black Friday itself. An analysis of deals found that the number of deals available from retailers peaks the week before Black Friday. Although the best time to buy depends on what you’re looking for, the data found that the best day to buy toys is two days before Black Friday, while the best time to purchase electronics is the very beginning of November. To avoid getting caught up in this year’s Black Friday’s frenzy coming up on 23 November, make sure you have a checklist of the things you need and investigate the price history way ahead of Black Friday at multiple stores.