Kenya’s increase in excise duty tax applicable on voice, SMS and data services has forced telecommunications provider, Telkom to restructure, laying off 500 members of staff. In a statement, Telkom stated that it had “issued the requisite thirty-day notice to relevant authorities and company stakeholders, of an intended workforce-restructuring exercise and is considering declaring about 500 employees, redundant.” The statement added, “To enable Telkom to invest more into the growth and sustainability of its business, it must align its cost structure and skill-set with its strategy. This requires Telkom to restructure its business, and as a result, this will impact the current and long-term needs of its workforce. This restructuring will enable Telkom to not only invest in its business but more importantly in its people.” In September, Kenya’s President, Uhuru Kenyatta signed a new finance bill increasing levies in key sectors, different sectors, including telecommunications, as a way to raise funds and narrow budget-deficit. The law increased the excise duty tax applicable on voice, SMS and data services from 10 percent to 15 percent. This is an additional increase on the value-added tax applicable to mobile services at the rate of 16 percent. Since the enforcement of the bill, there has been a hike in prices, protests and now a major termination of contracts of staff of telecommunication providers. According to Telkom, it is adapting to market dynamics and changing consumer demands as well as ensuring that the company delivers relevant and competitive products and services. Telkom Kenya provides integrated telecommunications solutions to individuals, Small and Medium-sized Enterprises (SMEs), Government and large corporates in Kenya, drawing from a diverse solutions suite that includes voice, data, mobile money as well as network services. The company is 60 percent owned by Helios Investment Partners, with the remaining stake held by Kenyans through the Government of Kenya.