South Africa’s President Cyril Ramaphosa is in Germany for a working visit and to partake in the G20 Compact with Africa Conference and the G20 Investment Summit. He will today engage with Heads of State and Government and leaders of the global private sector as part of his participation in the events. Ramaphosa had earlier met with Chancellor Angela Merkel and attended a dinner hosted by German President Frank-Walter Steinmeier. Following a breakfast meeting hosted by Prof Heinz-Walter Grobe, Chairman of the Sub-Saharan Africa Initiative of German Business (SAFRI) and Chairman of the Management Board of B. Braun Melsungen, Ramaphosa will in his capacity as Co-Chair of the G20-Africa Advisory Group deliver remarks at the G20 Investment Summit in Berlin. President @CyrilRamaphosa addressing Germany business at a business breakfast hosted by Prof Heinz-Walter Grobe, Chairman of the Sub-Saharan Africa Initiative of German Business (SAFRI) & Chairman of the Management Board of B. Braun Melsungen.#G20Africa#BetterAfricaBetterWorld pic.twitter.com/qlxBa15bDt — PresidencyZA (@PresidencyZA) October 30, 2018  He will also attend the German Direct Investment in Africa meeting, under the theme, “A New Era of German-African Business Relations” and later participate in the Conference on the G20 Compact with Africa. The German government had last week announced that it will hold the first meeting between the Group of 20 (G20) and leaders of African countries on 30 October in Berlin. The Heads of State and Government expected to participate in the talks include Ethiopia, Egypt, Benin, Cote d’Ivoire, Ghana, Morocco, Rwanda, Senegal, Guinea, Togo, Tunisia and Burkina Faso who are part of G20 Partnership with Africa and the Compact with Africa (CwA). The CwA Initiative is based on the premise that significant economic development can be achieved when African countries, G20 members, development partner countries, and international organisations work together to create a better environment for private investment. According to the South African Presidency, “This conference will therefore also focus on ways in which the G20, African countries and development banks can cooperate to promote private investment and economic participation in Africa while reflecting on the achievements and gains made since the Hamburg Summit of 2017”. The purpose of the G20 is to bring together systemically important industrialized and developing economies to discuss key issues in the global economy.