The International Association of Athletics Federations (IAAF) announced on 16 October that it had agreed to postpone, by five months, the implementation of controversial new rules on athletes with high testosterone levels as it awaits the outcome of South African track athlete, Caster Semenya’s challenge of its legality. The rule, which has drawn immense backlash, will no longer go into effect on 1 November. Semenya, who is double Olympic 800m champion (2012, 2016) and three-time world champion (2009, 2011, 2017), challenged the policy at the Court of Arbitration for Sports with the backing of Athletics South Africa (ASA), stating that the rules—which would force women athletes with “higher testosterone” to chemically lower their levels or compete with men—have a “discriminatory effect on female athletes termed “hyper androgynous”. However, the IAAF says it feels “very confident of the legal, scientific, and ethical bases for the regulations, and therefore fully expects the Court of Arbitration for Sport to reject these challenges.” “A contested application to stay the implementation of the DSD regulations would have caused additional delay and created new uncertainty for athletes seeking to compete in the women’s category,” the Monaco-based organization said in a statement. “However, the IAAF also understands that all affected athletes need certainty on the point as soon as possible. Therefore, in exchange for Ms Semenya and the ASA agreeing to an expedited timetable, the IAAF has agreed not to enforce the regulations against any athlete unless and until they are upheld in the CAS award, which is expected on or before 26 March 2019.” IAAF president Sebastian Coe added: “Prolonging the uncertainty for athletes looking to compete in these distances next year and beyond is unfair and so we have reached a compromise with the claimants. “We have agreed not to enforce the regulations against any athlete until the contested regulations are upheld. In exchange, they have agreed not to prolong the process. All athletes need this situation resolved as soon as possible.” Though the ASA says it is “pleased” with the suspension of the decision, if the testosterone rule goes into effect next year, athletes such as Semenya may not be able to compete for at least half of 2019, since female runners will be forced to medicate to reduce their testosterone levels for six months before racing internationally from 400 metres through the mile. The athlete in June had expressed her desire to run naturally, the way she was born. That target date is six months and two days before the start of the 2019 world championships in Doha, Qatar. Semenya is the current 800-meter world champion and a likely favourite for a fourth world title to add to her two Olympic gold medals.