Hillary Clinton’s concession speech to both of her failed presidential bids directly addressed the glass milestone that she was unable to reach. “Now, I know, I know we have still not shattered that highest and hardest glass ceiling, but someday, someone will,” Hillary Clinton said of the glass ceiling which she had said in 2008, had about “18 million cracks in it” after it was clear that then-Sen. Barack Obama would be the party’s nominee. The glass ceiling is a metaphor used to represent an invisible barrier that keeps a given demographic from rising beyond a certain level in a hierarchy. The metaphor was first coined by feminists in reference to invisible brick walls, barriers, debris, and roadblocks in the careers of high-achieving women. The expression continues to be used to address and challenge the mental, cultural and structural limitations which preemptively silence women from reaching for positions of power, depriving them of voice and visibility in the public sphere. Presently, there are even more than 18 million cracks and a few resounding shatters globally as power dynamics in entertainment, media and politics continue to change with the recognition that there are too few women in leadership positions despite the fact that their roles in the socio-economic growth of any country is critical. In the U.S., a year after #MeToo first began, almost half of all men involved have been replaced by women according to a New York Times analysis released on 23 October. According to the report, at least 200 men have been either fired or demoted following accusations of sexual misconduct. Of them, about 122 were replaced and 53 of those replacements were women, or 43 percent. One-third of the women work in news media, one-fourth in government, and one-fifth in the arts. On the African continent, last week, Ethiopia’s reformist Prime Minister Abiy Ahmed, who has been drawing admiration from all corners for his transformative leadership since coming to power six months ago, appointed a 20-person cabinet in which half the posts are held by women, including the country’s first woman defense minister. Taking it further, in a unanimous vote, Ethiopian lawmakers picked career diplomat Sahle-Work Zewde, 68, to replace Mulatu Teshome who resigned in unclear circumstances. Sahle-Work becomes Africa’s only serving female head of state, albeit in a ceremonial role. Rwanda’s President Paul Kagame announced his new cabinet, just after Ethiopia’s Abiy Ahmed, with women now taking up 50 percent of the positions. The entry of youthful first-timers was a counter to Africa’s old sleeping male leaders who create a disconnect in leadership when the average age of youth on the continent is less than 20. For Rwanda, however, this journey has been on for more than a decade with the country ranking 37 globally for the number of seats held by women in Parliament about 15 years ago. Today, at over 60 percent, Rwanda has the highest percentage of women in parliament in the world. But just appointing a woman does not guarantee change. Women have and continue to be appointed but are often silent and do not make any recognisable changes due to the fact they are still operating in a male-dominated system. A handful of African countries have in recent past been led by female presidents with executive powers, including Ellen Johnson Sirleaf in Liberia (2006-18) and Joyce Banda in Malawi (2012-14). However, for these African countries pioneering and increasingly building teams of transformational leaders with more women and younger members in this modern era, it is not only youthfulness or being a woman that qualifies one to be a leader. Across the board, one finds a combination of other factors including skill, experience and the ability to deliver results. The changes could have significant, wide-ranging implications across industries, the New York Times analysis suggests: “Research has repeatedly shown that women tend to lead differently. In general, they create more respectful work environments, where harassment is less likely to flourish and where women feel more comfortable reporting it. Female leaders tend to hire and promote more women; pay them more equally; and make companies more profitable. Women bring their life experiences and perspectives to decision-making, and that can help in business because women make the vast majority of purchasing decisions. In government, women have been shown to be more collaborative and bipartisan, and promote more policies supporting women, children and social welfare.” While the numbers aren’t available yet, the tide is changing as the world is begins to acknowledge the role of women in society and power. Ethiopia’s new president was keen to make a point about gender equality right from the start, telling MPs that if they thought she was talking too much about women, she had only just begun. “If the current change in Ethiopia is headed equally by both men and women, it can sustain its momentum and realise a prosperous Ethiopia free of religious, ethnic and gender discrimination,” Sahle-Work said after being elected as Ethiopia’s first female President in Addis Ababa on 25 October. Ethiopia and Rwanda’s gender balanced cabinet and continuous implementation of equal opportunities in power is sending women in Africa a clear message: the patriarchal tradition that establishes the background narrative about the place of women in society and enforces masculine standards that subordinate women while relentlessly upholding male privilege, can be beaten. “In a patriarchal society such as ours,” the Ethiopian prime minister’s chief of staff Fitsum Arega tweeted, “the appointment of a female head of state not only sets the standard for the future but also normalises women as decision-makers in public life.”